SUGGESTED ANSWERS JANUARY 2026 PAPER 2: BUSINESS LAWS - FOUNDATION COURSEPAPER – 2: BUSINESS LAWSQuestion No. 1 is compulsory.Attempt any four questions from the remaining five questions.Working Notes should form part of the answer.Question 1Bright Scholars is a prestigious school in Delhi. The school invited online applications from eligible students for 100 seats of preschool classes. The school indicated in the application form that the list of provisionally selected students would be displayed on the school notice board and website on 15th April, 2025. Those students, who will pay the admission fees online and physically, submit all the documents prescribed in the application by 18th April, 2025 will be confirmed. Vishal's son Aakash was provisionally selected Vishal paid the fees online on 16th April, 2025 but, failed to submit the prescribed documents by 18th April, 2025. On 19th April, 2025 Aakash's admission was cancelled on account of non-submission of documents without informing Vishal and all the fees paid by him was refunded to his account by Management of school.Vishal contended that he was not informed about cancellation of admission. As he already paid the fees before time, Aakash admission could not be cancelled by school management. On the other hand, he could not submit the documents as he was out of town from 16thApril 2025 to 20th April, 2025.Analyse with reference to the provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, whether the school's action to cancel the admission of Aakash without communication was valid?	(7 Marks)Prasad incorporated an OPC to run his new start-up in May, 2021. OPC borrowed ` 50 Lakhs to meet its long term fund requirements and ` 25 lakh to meet its working capital requirements on the basis of his project from a non-banking finance company (NBFC) in Oct, 2021. But due to some running hardships and new govt. policies OPC was failed to pay its debts to NBFC. Assets of the company were insufficient to pay the outstanding debts. According to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, decide whetherPrasad would be liable to pay the outstanding debts of NBFC in the following circumstances: -If the NBFC proceeded against the personal assets of Prasad only on the ground that he is the only shareholder and hence liable for its debts.If the NBFC proves that the One Person Company was formed for fraud and cheating.	(7 Marks)Explain with reference to provisions of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932.Whether a partner can be introduced without consent of other partners? If yes describe the procedure. If no, in what manner a partner can transfer his share in partnership?	(2 Marks)Describe the rights of transferee: -During the continuance of partnership.On the dissolution of the firm.	(4 Marks)AnswerRevocation of Proposal otherwise than by Communication:According to the provisions of Section 6 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, when a proposal is made, the proposer may not wait indefinitely for its acceptance. The offer can be revoked otherwise than by communication or sometimes by lapse of time.By Lapse of Time: The time for acceptance can lapse if acceptance is not given within the specified time and where no time is specified, then within a reasonable time period without communication of the acceptance, reason being the proposer should not be made to wait indefinitely.By non-fulfilment of condition precedent: Where the acceptor fails to fulfil a condition precedent to acceptance the proposal gets revoked [Section 6(3)]. Failure to satisfy any condition will result in lapse of proposal. As stated earlier ‘condition precedent’ to acceptance prevents an obligation from coming into existence until the condition is satisfied.In the instant case, the school indicated in the application form that provisionally selected students who have paid the admission fee and submitted all the documents by 18th April, 2025 will be confirmed.Vishal paid the admission fee for his son Aakash on 16th April, 2025 but failed to submit the prescribed documents by 18th April 2025. On 19th April, 2025 Aakash’s admission was cancelled on account of non-submission of documents without informing Vishal and all the fee was refunded.As both the conditions regarding payment of admission fee and submission of documents till 18th April 2025 were the conditions precedent for Aakash’s admission, the school’s action to cancel the admission of Aakash without communication was valid. Vishal’s absence from town from 16th April 2025 to 20th April 2025 was no excuse.Thus, offer can be revoked otherwise than by communication. The school's action to cancel the admission of Vishal is valid.According to Section 2(62) of the Companies Act, 2013, a One Person Company (OPC) means a Company which has only one person as a member. A Company is a separate legal entity distinct from its member and enjoys limited liability.Separate Legal Entity: When a Company is registered, it is clothed with a legal personality. Its existence is distinct and separate from that of its members.Limited Liability: The liability of the members of the Company is limited to the extent of the nominal value of shares held by them. In no case, the shareholders can be asked to pay anything more than the unpaid value of their shares. The liability of OPC’s sole member is limited to the extent of unpaid share capital, if any.In the instant case, OPC failed to pay its debts to NBFC. Assets of the company were insufficient to pay the outstanding debts.According to above provisions, we can conclude that: -If the NBFC proceeded against the personal assets of Prasad only on the ground that he is the only shareholder and hence liable for its debts: Prasad will not be personally liable to pay the outstanding debts of the NBFC merely on the ground that he is the only shareholderof the OPC because the debts of the OPC are its own and the OPC enjoys limited liability. Creditors cannot proceed against the personal assets of the member merely because he is the sole shareholder.Therefore, the NBFC cannot proceed against the personal assets of Prasad only on the ground that he is the sole shareholder.If the NBFC proves that the One Person Company was formed for fraud and cheating: Where a Company is incorporated or carried on with intent to defraud Creditors or for any fraudulent purpose, the “Doctrine of Lifting of Corporate Veil” applies and the Corporate Veil can be lifted. In such cases, the protection of limited liability is withdrawn and the member can be held personally responsible for the debts of the company.Accordingly, if the NBFC proves that the OPC was incorporated for fraudulent purposes, the protection of limited liability can be withdrawn and Prasad would be liable to pay the outstanding debts of NBFC and his personal assets can be used to settle the outstanding liabilities.(i) Whether a Partner can be introduced without the consent of other Partners?No. By virtue of provisions of Section 31 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, no person can be introduced as a partner in a firm without the consent of all the existing partners.In what manner a Partner can transfer his share in Partnership?As per Section 31 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, no person can be introduced as a partner in a firm without the consent of all the existing partners unless specified as per the partnership agreement. A partner cannot, by transferring his own interest, make anybody else a partner in his place, unless the other partners agree to accept that person as a partner.However, a partner is not debarred from transferring his interest. A partner’s interest in the partnership can be regarded as an existing interest and tangible property which can be assigned.(1) Rights of a Transferee during the continuance of Partnership [Section 29(1)]:During the continuance of partnership, such transferee is not entitled:to interfere with the conduct of the business,to require accounts, orto inspect books of the firm.He is only entitled to receive the share of the profits of the transferring partner and he is bound to accept the profits as agreed to by the partners, i.e., he cannot challenge the accounts.The rights of such a transferee on the dissolution of the firm are as follows [Section 29(2)]:On the dissolution of the firm, the transferee will be entitled, against the remaining partners:to receive the share of the assets of the firm to which the transferring partner was entitled, andfor the purpose of ascertaining the share, he is entitled to an account as from the date of the dissolution.Question 2With reference to the provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 what is the major difference between condition and warranty? Examine the following cases and comment whether it is a ‘Breach of Condition' or 'Breach of Warranty' by quoting the relevant provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930:Ashutosh purchased a second hand laptop from Sudhir for ` 10,000/-. After a month, Ashutosh came to know that Sudhir was not the true owner of the laptop. Actually Mahindra (a friend of Sudhir) was the true owner of the laptop, who unknowingly left his laptop at the Sudhir's residence. As a result Ashutosh's position became awkward. What would be course of action available to Ashutosh in this regard?   (2 Marks)Anita ordered to purchase an Italian couch from a prominent e-commerce platform. When the order was delivered, it was found that the couch was not Italian as narrated on the e-commerce platform. What would be course of action available to Anita in this regard?  (2 Marks)Rishabh purchased a car costing ` 7 lakh by availing bank loan which is hypothecated in favour of the bank. Due to some medical emergency, Rishabh took another loan of ` 5 Lakhs from his friend Sandeep on the basis of security of his car. When the fact of bank loan came to knowledge of Sandeep, Rishabh denied paying the loan amount to Sandeep. What would be course of action available to Sandeep in this regard?	(3 Marks)(i) What do you mean by 'Common Seal'? Is it necessary for a company to have Common Seal? Discuss as per provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.	(3 Marks)(ii) Whether the phrases "Company Limited by Shares" and "Company Limited by Guarantee" are same? If not, explain any four differences between these two according to provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.(4 Marks)(i) According to provisions of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008, State the provisions with respect to registered office of LLP and changes therein. What would be consequences if these provisions are contravened?	(4 Marks)(ii) Discuss the provisions of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008 relating to the minimum number of partners required and the eligibility criteria for becoming a partner in a Limited Liability Partnership.(2 Marks)AnswerMajor difference between a Condition and Warranty under the Sale of Goods Act, 1930:The following are the major differences between a ‘Condition’ and a ‘Warranty’ as per the provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930.Point of DifferencesConditionWarrantyMeaningA condition is a stipulation essential to the main purpose of the contract.A warranty is a stipulation collateral to the main purpose of the contract.Right	in	case	of breachThe aggrieved party can repudiate the contract or claim damages or both in the case of breach of condition.The aggrieved party can claim only damages in case of breach of warranty.Conversion	of stipulationsA breach of condition may be treated as a breach of warranty.A breach of warranty cannot be treated as a breach of condition.This is a case of ‘Breach of Warranty’ as to undisturbed possession.As per Section 14(b) of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930, if the buyer having got possession of the goods, is later on disturbed in his possession, he is entitled to sue the seller for the breach of the warranty.Therefore, Sudhir shall be held responsible for a breach and Ashutosh is entitled to sue Sudhir, the seller without title, for the recovery of the purchase price.Alternative Answer (i)This is a case of ‘Breach of Condition’ as to Title.As per Section 14(a) of the Act, the condition implied is that the seller has the right to sell the goods (means he should be the real owner) at the time when the property is to pass.If the seller’s title/ownership turns out to be defective, the buyer must return the goods to the true owner and recover the price from the seller.In the given case, Sudhir has no right to sell as he was not the actual owner of laptop even though he sold the laptop to Ashutosh for consideration of ` 10,000/-. As the title of Sudhir turned out to be defective, Ashutosh should return the laptop to Mahendra and recover the full price paid from Sudhir.Thus, Sudhir has breached the implied condition as to title.Therefore, Sudhir shall be held responsible for a breach and Ashutosh is entitled to sue Sudhir, the seller without title, for the recovery of the purchase price.This is a case of breach of condition of ‘Sale by Description’.As per Section 15 of the Act, where there is a contract of sale of goods by description, there is an implied condition that the goods shall correspond with the description.The buyer is not bound to accept and pay for the goods which are not in accordance with description.Therefore, Anita is entitled to reject the Couch as it was not Italian as narrated on the e-commerce platform and ask for refund if already paid.This is a case of ‘Breach of Warranty’ as to Non-existence of Encumbrances.As per Section 14(c) of the Act, there is an implied warranty that the goods shall be free from any charge or encumbrance in favour of any third party not declared or known to the buyer before or at the time the contract is entered into.In the given case the car was already hypothecated in favour of a bank. However, Rishabh took another loan of ` 5 Lakhs from his friend Sandeep on the basis of security of his car, without informing him about hypothecation of car.Therefore, Sandeep may file a suit against Rishabh for recovery of the money with interest. It may be noted that Sandeep can file a Civil Suit on a Competent Court to recover damages. The claim would be for loss suffered due to breach of Warranty and not the ownership of the Car.(i)  Meaning of Common SealCommon seal is the official signature of a company, which is affixed by the officers and employees of the company on its every document. The common seal is a seal used by a corporation as the symbol of its incorporation.Is it necessary for a Company to have a Common Seal?Having a common seal is optional now. The Companies (Amendment) Act, 2015 has made the common seal optional by omitting the words “and a common seal” from Section 9 of the Companies Act, 2013 so as to provide an alternative mode of authorization for companies who opt not to have a common seal. This amendment provides that the documents which need to be authenticated by a common seal will be required to be so done, only if the company opts to have a common seal.In case a company does not have a common seal, the authorization shall be made by two directors or by a director and the Company Secretary, wherever the company has appointed a Company Secretary.(ii) Whether the phrases ‘Company Limited by Shares” and “Company Limited by Guarantee” are same?No, the phrases 'Company Limited by Shares' and ‘Company Limited by Guarantee' are not same.Distinction between "Company Limited by Shares" and "Company Limited by Guarantee" is tabulated as under:S.No.Company Limited by SharesCompany	Limited	by Guarantee1.It is defined under Section 2(22) of the Companies Act, 2013.It is defined under Section 2(21) of the Companies Act, 2013.2.It is a company when the liability of the members of a company is limited by its Memorandum of Association to the amount (if any) unpaid on the shares held by them.It is a company having the liability of its members limited by the Memorandum to contribute to the assets of the company in the event of its being wound up.3.The members may be called upon to discharge their liability	only	after commencement   of   theThe members may be called upon to discharge their liability at any time, either during the company’s life- time or during its winding up.winding up and only subject to certain conditions.4.This company can raise its initial working funds from its members.This company does not raise its initial working funds from its members.5.For meeting the debts of the Company, the shareholder may be called upon to contribute only to the extent of the amount which remains unpaid on his shareholdings. His separate property cannot be encompassed to meet the Company’s debt.The liability of a member of a guarantee company is limited to a stipulated sum mentioned	in	the memorandum. Members cannot be called upon to contribute beyond that stipulated sum.(i)  Registered Office of Limited Liability PartnershipAccording to Section 13 of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008:Every Limited Liability Partnership shall have a Registered Office to which all communications and notices may be addressed and where they shall be received.A document may be served on a Limited Liability Partnership or a partner or designated partner thereof by sending it by post under a certificate of posting or by registered post or by any other manner, as may be prescribed, at the registered office and any other address specifically declared by the limited liability partnership for the purpose in such form and manner as may be prescribed.Changes in the Place of Registered Office:A Limited Liability Partnership may change the place of its registered office and file the notice of such change with the Registrar in such form and manner and subject to such conditions as may be prescribed and any such change shall take effect only upon such filing.Consequences if the Provisions are Contravened:If any default is made in complying with the requirements of this Section, the Limited Liability Partnership and its every partner shall be liable to a penalty of five hundred rupees for each day during which the default continues, subject to a maximum of fifty thousand rupees for the limited liability partnership and its every partner.Minimum Number of Partners Required: As per Section 6 of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008, every LLP must have a minimum of two partners.If at any time the number of partners of a LLP is reduced below two and the LLP carries on business for more than six months while the number is so reduced, the person, who is the only partner of the LLP during that period, and has knowledge of the fact that he is carrying on business alone, shall be liable personally for the obligations of the LLP incurred during that period.Eligibility Criteria for becoming a Partner: As per Section 5, any individual or a body corporate may be a partner in a LLP; however, an individual will be disqualified if:He is of unsound mind by a court of competent jurisdiction and finding is in the force.He is an un-discharged insolvent.He has applied to be adjudicated as an insolvent and his application is pending.Question 3(i)  Ramesh is a supplier of fruits and vegetables in Azadpur Mandi, Delhi. To expand its business, he invited Suresh and Mahesh (his college friends) to invest in his business. Suresh and Mahesh were agreed but they put a condition that they will share profit in the ratio of 33.33% each or Interest @ 12% p.a. on the capital (which they will bring) whichever is higher but they will not share losses if occurred in any year. Ramesh agreed for this association and made an agreement for partnership. Advise, whether this association will be treated as partnership according to the provisions of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932?	(3 Marks)Manak was working as a construction contractor from several years. He engaged Roop Sing a labour and material contractor for procurement of raw material and labour for construction site. All the expenses pertaining to raw material, Labour wages will be borne by Manak. Manak agreed to give Roop Singh 5% of the contract amount for procurement. Whether this arrangement will be termed as partnership? Explain according to provisions of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932?	(2 Marks)Shantanu was running business of ABC Travel Agency from several years. He purchased 10 cars amounting to ` 100 lakh for the purpose of running them on hire. He borrowed ` 50 lakhs for this purpose from Shankar. Shankar proposed that he will take 25% of profit share. He has nothing to do with business. Shantanu agreed for this proposal. After some time, Shankar told his friends that he is partner in ABC Travel Agency. Shantanu denied the fact. He contended that he is sharing in profit only, not a partner in his travel agency. Advice with reference to the provisions of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 whether this arrangement between the Shantanu and Shankar will be treated as partnership?	(2 Marks)(i) Stuti Textiles Private Ltd. is a wholly owned subsidiary of SS Textiles Limited. It has only 5 members and restricts the right to transfer their shares to any person other than person who is in employment of the company. Some Members opposed the decision of the company as they want to invite a group of people to subscribe shares in Stuti Textile Private Ltd. Decide with reference to provisions of Companies Act, 2013, whether restriction of company to transfer share is correct?  (3 Marks)The paid-up capital and turnover of Aaradhya Cosmetics Private Ltd. (ACPL) for FY 2024-25 is ` 4 crores and ` 45 crores respectively. Directors of ACPL decided not to follow some provisions as it is a small company according to section 2(85) of the Companies Act, 2013. Company secretary of Pooja Fashions Private Limited (PFPL) contended that ACPL is not a small company as ACPL is a holding company of (PFPL). Decide whether ACPL Cosmetics Ltd. can avail status of small company according to provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.	(2 Marks)The paid-up share capital of Abhinav Natural Gases Ltd. (ANGL) is ` 140 crores. The holdings of Central Government and Maharashtra Government are ` 40.10 crores and ` 30.20 crores respectively. In onetender relating to natural gas, directors of ANGL quoted it as Government Company. Decide according to provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 whether ANGL can be tagged as Government Company?(2 Marks)The Passing or transfer of property constitutes most important element and factor to decide legal rights and liabilities of seller and buyer. The primary rule determining the passing of property from seller to buyer depends on following. Explain after quoting relevant provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930.Where the goods are ascertainedWhere the goods are unascertained	(6 Marks)Answer(i)  Whether the Association will be treated as Partnership?Section 4 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 states that "Partnership" is the relation between persons who have agreed to share the profits of a business carried on by all or any of them acting for all.The sharing of profits of a business is an essential feature of partnership. There can be no partnership where only one of the partners is entitled to the whole of the profits of the business. Partners must agree to share the profits in any manner they choose.But an agreement to share losses is not an essential requirement. It is open to one or more partners to agree to share all the losses.Yes, it is a case of partnership. The association between the partners, Ramesh and Suresh will be treated as partnership according to the provisions of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, as there was a partnership agreement according to which they decided to share in profit only.Alternate Answer to 3(a)(i)No, it is not a case of partnership due to lack of the mutual agency which is conclusive evidence of partnership. Mutual agency includes that all partners are jointly and severally liable for the partnership's debts and obligations, even if they didn't directly participate in the specific transaction.As per the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, "Partnership" is the relation between persons who have agreed to share the profits of a business carried on by all or any of them acting for all (mutual agency).In the gives case, there was no agreement to share profit of the business. Manak was incurring all the expenses relating to the construction and Roop Singh is merely acting as an agent of Manak as he was receiving 5% of the contract value.Therefore, this arrangement will not be termed as partnership.According to Section 6 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 in determining whether a group of persons is or is not a partnership firm, or whether a person is or is not a partner in a firm, regard shall be had to the real relation between the parties, as shown by all relevant facts taken together.For determining the existence of partnership, it must be proved that:There was an agreement between all the partners concerned;The agreement was to share the profits of a business andThe business was carried on by all or any of them acting for all.Sharing of profit, which is prima facie evidence, exists but mutual agency among Shantanu and Shankar, which is an essential element, does not exist here as Shantanu borrowed ` 50 Lakhs for his business from Shankar for which will take 25% of profit share.In the absence of mutual agency, the most essential element of partnership, the arrangement between Shantanu and Shankar cannot be treated as a partnership under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932.(i) According to Section 2(68) of the Companies Act, 2013 Private Company means a company which restricts the right to transfer its share and prohibits any invitation to the public to subscribe for any share in the company.But, according to proviso to Section 2(71) of the Companies Act, 2013 a company which is a subsidiary of a company, not being a private company, shall be deemed to be public company for the purposes of this Act even where such subsidiary company continues to be a private company in its Articles of Association.The shares of a Public Company is freely transferable.In the instant case, since Stuti Textiles Private Ltd. is a wholly owned subsidiary of SS Textiles Limited, restriction of Stuti Textiles Private Ltd. to transfer share is not correct as it is deemed to be a Public Company.Thus, restriction on transfer of shares is incorrect.Alternate Answer(i) According to Section 2(68) of the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act), a Private Company must, by its Articles of Association (AoA), include specific restrictions, including the restriction on the right to transfer its shares.Under the proviso to Section 2(71) of the Act, a Private Company that is a subsidiary of a Public Company is ‘Deemed to be a Public Company for the purposes of the Act.Judicial precedents (such as Hillcrest Realty v. Hotel Queen Road) confirm that the "deemed public" status does not alter the basic characteristics of a Private Company.The restriction imposed by Stuti Textiles Pvt. Ltd. (STPL) limiting transfer of shares only to employees of the company is a valid restriction. Further, the proposal of some members to invite a group of people to subscribe to shares in STPL is contrary to the provisions of the Act. Hence, the opposition by virtue of the existing restriction in the Articles of Association of Company is justified.In the given case, STPL can still limit its members subject to maximum of 200 (currently it has 5) and restrict share transfers as per its Articles of Association, within the parameters and modalities as decided/ may be decided by the shareholders of the Company, which is owned by a Public Limited Company.However, being a Wholly Owned Subsidiary Company, where all the members/ shareholders are nominated by the holding company, such type of proposed transfers can be permitted, but after amending the Articles of Association of the Private Company.In view of the above, the restriction of share transfers by Stuti Textiles Pvt. Ltd. is legally correct, even though it is a subsidiary of a Public Company.Small Company: Small company given under the Section 2(85) of the Companies Act, 2013 which means a company, other than a public company:paid-up share capital of which does not exceed 4 crores rupees or such higher amount as may be prescribed which shall not be more than ten crore rupees; andturnover of which as per profit and loss account for the immediately preceding financial year does not exceed 40 crores rupees or such higher amount as may be prescribed which shall not be more than one hundred crore rupees:Exceptions: This clause shall not apply to:a holding company or a subsidiary company;a company registered under section 8; ora company or body corporate governed by any special Act.In the given case, although the paid-up capital and turnover of Aaradhya Cosmetics Private Ltd. is within the terms of Small Company but, Aaradhya Cosmetics Private Limited (ACPL) is the holding company of Pooja Fashions Private Limited (PFPL) and as per the proviso (A) to Section 2(85), holding company shall not be treated a Small Company. Hence ACPL Cosmetics Private Ltd. cannot avail the status of a Small Company. Contention of directors of ACPL is incorrect.Government Company [Section 2(45)]: Government Company means any company in which not less than 51% of the paid-up share capital is held by-the Central Government, orby any State Government or Governments, orpartly by the Central Government and partly by one or more State Governments.and the Section includes a Company which is a Subsidiary Company of such a Government Company.In the instant case, Abhinav Natural Gases Ltd. (ANGL) cannot be tagged as a Government Company as the total holding of CentralGovernment and State Government is ` 70.30 crores (` 40.10 crores +` 30.20 crores) which is less than 51% of the paid-up share capital of ANGL i.e. ` 71.40 crores (51% of ` 140 crores).Hence ANGL shall not be tagged as Government Company. Directors of ANGL cannot quote it as Government Company.Primary rule determining the passing of property from seller to buyerWhere the goods are Ascertained (Section 19 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930): Where there is a contract for the sale of specific or ascertained goods, the property in them is transferred to the buyer at such time as the parties to the contract intend it to be transferred. [sub-section (1)]For the purpose of ascertaining the intention of the parties, regard shall be had to the terms of the contract, the conduct of the parties and the circumstances of the case. [sub-section (2)]Unless a different intention appears, the rules contained in Sections 20 to 24 are rules for ascertaining the intention of the parties as to the time at which the property in the goods is to pass to the buyer. [sub-section (3)]Stages of goods while passing of propertySpecific goods in a deliverable stateSection 20 of the Act provides that where there is an unconditional contract for the sale of specific goods in a deliverable state, the property in the goods passes to the buyer when the contract is made, and it is immaterial whether the time of payment of the price or the time of delivery of the goods, or both, is postponed. Here, condition is goods must be ready for delivery.Specific goods to be put into a deliverable state.Section 21 of the Act provides that where there is a contract for the sale of specific goods and the seller is bound to do something to the goods for the purpose of putting them into a deliverable state, the property does not pass until such thing is done and the buyer has notice thereof.Specific goods in a deliverable state, when the seller has to do anything thereto in order to ascertain price.Section 22 of the Act provides that where there is a contract for the sale of specific goods in a deliverable state, but the seller is bound to weigh, measure, test or do some other act or thing with reference to the goods for the purpose of ascertaining the price, the property does not pass until such act or thing is done and the buyer has notice thereof.Where the goods are Unascertained: Where there is a contract for the sale of unascertained goods, no property in the goods is transferred to the buyer unless and until the goods are ascertained. [Section 18]The rules in respect of passing of property of unascertained goods are as follows:Sale of unascertained goods by Description and Appropriation [Section 23(1)]: Appropriation of goods involves selection of goods with the intention of using them in performance of the contract and with the mutual consent of the seller and the buyer.The essentials are:There is a contract for the sale of unascertained or future goods.The goods should conform to the description and quality stated in the contract.The goods must be in a deliverable state.The goods must be unconditionally (as distinguished from an intention to appropriate) appropriated to the contract either by delivery to the buyer or his agent or the carrier.The appropriation must be made by:the seller with the assent of the buyer; orthe buyer with the assent of the seller.The assent may be express or implied.The assent may be given either before or after appropriationDelivery of the goods to the carrier [Section 23(2)]: Where, in pursuance of the contract, the seller delivers the goods to the buyer or to a carrier or other bailee (whether named by the buyer or not) for the purpose of transmission to the buyer, and does not reserve the right of disposal, he is deemed to have unconditionally appropriated the goods to the contract.Question 4(i)  Bhuvika borrowed ` 4,75,000/- from her relative Madan on 5th April 2020 on interest @ 1% per month for 5 year for running her Cosmetics store. She was paying continuously instalment and interest every month. But due to sudden introduction of nature care products her products became obsolete. As a result, she was unable to pay monthly instalment and interest from May 2021 onwards. The debt got time barred by limitation Act. However, on account of continuous persuasions of her relatives, Bhuvika promised in writing to pay the outstanding amount shortly within a few months. Whether Madan can legally recover the debts from Bhuvika when the loan has already been time barred? Explain with reference to provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872.    (2 Marks)Chhaya and Abeer are very good friends. On Chhaya's birthday Abeer gifted an I-Phone worth ` 1.35 lakh. Whether this gift is valid as per provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872?	(2 Marks)Amol promised to give a gold ring worth ` 1 lakh to her friend Chakori on her birthday. Whether the promise made by Amol is enforceable in law as per the provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872?What would be your answer if the relation between Amol and Chakori is of Husband & Wife?	(3 Marks)What is promissory note? "What are the essential elements that must be present for a document to be considered a valid promissory note?" Define according to provisions of the Negotiable Instrument Act, 1881.  (7 Marks)Describe in brief about the following Regulatory bodies of the Government of India:Reserve Bank of IndiaInsolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India	(6 Marks)Answer(i) Promise to pay Time Barred Debt: Where a promise in writing signed by the person making it or by his authorized agent, is made to pay a debt barred by limitation, it is valid without consideration [Section 25(3) of the Indian Contract Act, 1872].Thus, in terms of the provisions of Section 25(3) of the Act, Madan can legally recover the debts with interest from Bhuvika since she had promised in writing to pay the outstanding amount shortly within a few months even though the loan has already been time barred.Completed gift: According to Section 25 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 an agreement made without consideration is void. Further explanation 1 to Section 25 states that nothing in this section shall affect the validity, as between the donor and donee, of any gift actually made.In case of completed gifts, the rule of no consideration no gift does not apply.Thus, gifts do not require any consideration.In the instant case, the gift of I-Phone from Abeer to Chhaya has already been done, which amounts to ‘Completed Gift’ and is covered by explanation 1 to Section 25.Hence, gift given by Abeer to Chhaya is valid.According to Section 25 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, an agreement made without consideration is void, subject to certain exceptions.One important exception is:An agreement made out of natural love and affection between parties standing in a near relation to each other is valid, provided it is in writing and registered.Position when Amol and Chakori are Friends: Since the Amol and Chakori are merely friends (and not near relatives) and do not come within the purview of Section25(1). The promise to give a gold ring is mere promise and not supported by consideration. Hence the promise made by Amol is not legally enforceable.Position when Amol and Chakori are Husband & Wife: In this position the parties are in near relation and Amol promised out of natural love and affection to gift her wife a gold ring. This can be legally enforceable provided the promise is in writing and registered under the law.In other words, this can be legally enforceable provided the promise is in writing and registered under the law as Amol and Chakori are in near relation and Amol promised out of natural love and affection to gift her wife which comes within the purview of Section 25(1) of the Indian Contract Act, 1872.What is a Promissory Note?According to Section 4 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, A 'Promissory Note' is an instrument in writing (not being a bank-note or a currency-note) containing an unconditional undertaking signed by the maker, to pay a certain sum of money only to, or to the order of, a certain person, or to the bearer of the instrument.Essential Elements of a Promissory NoteIn writing- It must be in writing to be legally enforceable, an oral promise to pay is not sufficient.There must be an express promise to pay. Mere acknowledgement of debt is insufficient.The promise to pay should be definite and unconditional. Therefore, instruments payable on performance or non-performance of a particular act or on the happening or non-happening of an event, are not promissory notes. However, the promise to pay may be subject to a condition, which according to the ordinary experience of mankind, is bound to happen.A promissory note must be signed by the maker otherwise it is incomplete and ineffective.Promise to pay money only.Promise to pay a certain sum.The maker and payee must be certain, definite and different persons. A promissory note cannot be made payable to the bearer (section 31 of the Bank of India Act, 1934, RBI Act). Only the ReserveBank or the central government can make or issue a promissory note 'payable to bearer'.Stamping: A promissory note must be properly stamped in accordance with the provisions of the Indian Stamp Act and such stamp must be duly cancelled by maker's signatures or initials on such stamp or otherwise.(i)  Reserve Bank of IndiaIt is India's Central Bank and regulatory body responsible for regulation of the Indian banking system.It is under the ownership of Ministry of Finance, Government of India.It is responsible for the control, issue and maintaining supply of the Indian rupee.It also manages the country's main payment systems and works to promote its economic development.Bharatiya Reserve Bank Note Mudran (BRBNM) is a specialized division of RBI through which it prints and mints Indian currency notes (INR) in two of its currency printing presses located in Nashik (Western India) and Dewas (Central India).RBI established the National Payments Corporation of India as one of its specialized divisions to regulate the payment and settlement systems in India.Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation was established by RBI as one of its specialized divisions for the purpose of providing insurance of deposits and guaranteeing of credit facilities to all Indian banks.Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of IndiaIt is the regulator for overseeing insolvency proceedings and entities like Insolvency Professional Agencies (IPA), Insolvency Professionals (IP) and Information Utilities (IU) in India.It was established on 1 October, 2016 and given statutory powers through the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, which was passed by Lok Sabha on 5th May, 2016.It covers Individuals, Companies, Limited Liability, Partnerships and Partnership firms. The new code will speed up the resolution process for stressed assets in the country.It attempts to simplify the process of insolvency and bankruptcy proceedings.It handles the cases using two tribunals like NCLT (National Company Law Tribunal) and Debt Recovery Tribunal.Question 5Raj is a manufacturer of talcum powder. Vikas purchased a talcum powder from Raj and after using it, he suffered from skin irritation due to a chemical residue available in talcum powder. Vikas plead that Raj is responsible for his suffering. Raj denied his liability on the basis that he was in no way responsible for the bad selection of the buyer (caveat emptor). Examine under the provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930.Whether Raj would be held responsible?Whether your answer would be different if Raj is only a trader of the talcum powder of a popular brand sold in a sealed container if it is a sale by description?	(7 Marks)(i) Describe any four mutual rights and liabilities of partners in a partnership firm with reference to the provisions of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932.	(4 Marks)(ii) Describe any three grounds on which the Court may dissolve a partnership firm with reference to the provisions of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932.	(3 Marks)A surety is said to be discharged when his liability comes to an end. Define various modes of Discharge of surety according to provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872.By revocation of the contract of guarantee (any two situations)By the conduct of creditor (any two situation)By the invalidation of the contract of guarantee (any two situations)(6 Marks)Answer(i)  Whether Raj would be held responsible?According to Section 16(1) of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930, there is an implied condition that the goods shall be reasonably fit for the purpose for which they are purchased, provided the buyer makes the purpose known to the seller and relies on the seller's skill or judgment.In the instant case, Raj is the manufacturer. As a manufacturer of talcum powder, there is an implied condition that the product is fit for human skin usage. Since the powder contained a chemical residue that caused skin irritation, it was not of merchantable quality, meaning it was not fit for its ordinary purpose (application to the body).The chemical residue constitutes a "latent defect" (not discoverable by ordinary inspection), making the product unmerchantable and unfit for use. Therefore, the doctrine of caveat emptor (let the buyer beware) does not apply here because the defect was not discoverable by ordinary inspection, and the seller (as manufacturer) is liable for the fitness of the product.Raj, the manufacturer of the talcum powder, is responsible for the skin irritation of Vikas. Raj cannot deny liability based on the buyer's selection because the product was not of "merchantable quality," which is an implied condition in sale of goods. Vikas can claim damages from Raj for the skin irritation caused by the defective talcum powder.If Raj is only a Trader: Section 16(2) of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 states that where goods are bought by description from a seller who deals in goods of that description (whether he is the manufacturer or not), there is an implied condition that the goods shall be of "merchantable quality".Even if Raj is merely a trader selling a popular brand in a sealed container, the goods must still be merchantable (i.e., fit for use). A product that causes skin irritation due to chemical residue is not of merchantable quality. The seller is liable for latent defects in the goods even if they are sold in a sealed container, as the seller is expected to sell goods that are fit for consumption/use.Raj is still responsible for selling goods of unmerchantable quality, even if he is just a trader.Alternate Answer (ii)One of the exceptions of doctrine of Caveat Emptor is that, in case where the goods are purchased under its patent name or brand name, there is no implied condition that the goods shall be fit for any particular purpose [Section 16(1)].Here, the buyer is relying on the particular brand name. However, when goods are sold in a sealed container of a reputed brand, the trader does not manufacture the goods and has no control over the contents.Here, Raj is only a trader, not a manufacturer. So, the manufacturer is responsible and not Raj.(i) Mutual rights and liabilities of Partners (Section 13 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932):Subject to contract between the partners, they are entitled to:Right to Remuneration [Section 13(a)]: No partner is entitled to receive any remuneration in addition to his share in the profits of the firm for taking part in the business of the firm. But this rule can always be varied by an express agreement, or by a course of dealings, in which event the partner will be entitled to remuneration.Right to Share Profits [Section 13(b)]: Partners are entitled to share equally in the profits earned and so contribute equally to the losses sustained by the firm. The amount of a partner’s share must be ascertained by enquiring whether there is any agreement in that behalf between the partners. If there is no agreement then you should make a presumption of equality and the burden of proving that the shares are unequal, will lie on the party alleging the same.Interest on Capital [Section 13(c)]: The following elements must be there before a partner can be entitled to interest on moneys brought by him in the partnership business: (i) an express agreement to that effect, or practice of the particular partnership or (ii) any trade custom to that effect; or (iii) a statutory provision which entitles him to such interest.Interest on Advances [Section 13(d)]: If a partner makes an advance to the firm in addition to the amount of capital to be contributed by him, in such a case, the partner is entitled to claim interest thereon @ 6% per annum. While interest on capital account ceases to run on dissolution, the interest on advances keep running even after dissolution and up to the date of payment.Right to be Indemnified [Section 13(e)]: Every partner has the right to be indemnified by the firm in respect of payments made and liabilities incurred by him in the ordinary and proper conduct of the business of the firm as well as in the performance of an act in an emergency for protecting the firm from any loss, if the payments, liability and act are such as a prudent man would make, incur or perform in his own case, under similar circumstances.Right to indemnify the firm [Section 13(f)]: A partner must indemnify the firm for any loss caused to it by willful neglect in the conduct of the business of the firm.Dissolution by the Court: According to Section 44 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 the Court may, at the suit of the partner, dissolve a firm on any of the following grounds:Insanity/Unsound Mind: Where a partner (not a sleeping partner) has become of unsound mind, the court may dissolve the firm on a suit of the other partners or by the next friend of the insane partner. Temporary sickness is no ground for dissolution of firm.Permanent Incapacity: When a partner, other than the partner suing, has become in any way permanently incapable of performing his duties as partner, then the court may dissolve the firm. Such permanent incapacity may result from physical disability or illness etc.Misconduct: Where a partner, other than the partner suing, is guilty of misconduct which is likely to affect prejudicially the carrying on of business, the court may order for dissolution of the firm, by giving regard to the nature of business. It is not necessary that misconduct must relate to the conduct of the business. The important point is the adverse effect of misconduct on the business. In each case nature of business will decide whether an act is misconduct or not.Persistent Breach of Agreement: Where a partner other than the partner suing, willfully or persistently commits breach of agreements relating to the management of the affairs of the firms or the conduct of its business, or otherwise so conduct himself in matters relating to the business that it is not reasonable practicable for other partners to carry on the business in partnership with him, then the court may dissolve the firm at the instance of any of the partners.Following comes in to category of breach of contract:EmbezzlementKeeping erroneous accountsHolding more cash than allowedRefusal to show accounts despite repeated request etc.Transfer of Interest: Where a partner other than the partner suing, has transferred the whole of his interest in the firm to a third party or has allowed his share to be charged or sold by the court, in the recovery of arrears of land revenue due by the partner, the court may dissolve the firm at the instance of any other partner.Continuous/ Perpetual Losses: Where the business of the firm cannot be carried on, except at a loss in future, the court may order for its dissolution.Just and Equitable Grounds: Where the court considers any other ground to be just and equitable for the dissolution of the firm, it may dissolve a firm.The following are the cases for the just and equitable grounds:Deadlock in the management.Where the partners are not in talking terms between them.Loss of substratum.Gambling by a partner on a stock exchange.According to the provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, a surety is said to be discharged when his liability as surety comes to an end.The various modes of discharge of surety are:By revocation of the contract of guarantee.By the conduct of the creditor, orBy the invalidation of the contract of guarantee.By revocation of the Contract of GuaranteeRevocation of Continuing Guarantee by Notice (Section 130): The continuing guarantee may at any time be revoked by the surety as to future transactions by notice to the creditors. A specific guarantee can be revoked only if liability to principal debtor has not accrued.Revocation of Continuing Guarantee by Surety’s Death (Section 131): In the absence of any contract to the contrary, the death of surety operates as a revocation of a continuing guarantee as to the future transactions taking place after the death of surety. However, the surety’s estate remains liable for the past transactions which have already taken place before the death of the surety.By Novation [Section 62]: The surety under original contract is discharged if a fresh contract is entered into either between the same parties or between the other parties, the consideration being the mutual discharge of the old contract.By conduct of the creditorBy variance in terms of contract (Section 133): Where there is any variance in the terms of contract between the principal debtor and creditor without surety’s consent, it would discharge the surety in respect of all transactions taking place subsequent to such variance.By release or discharge of principal debtor (Section 134): The surety is discharged if the creditor:enters into a fresh/ new contract with principal debtor; by which the principal debtor is released, ordoes any act or omission, the legal consequence of which is the discharge of the principal debtor.Discharge of surety when creditor compounds with, gives time to, or agrees not to sue, principal debtor [Sector 135]: A contract between the creditor and the principal debtor, by which the creditor makes a composition with, or promises to give time to, or promises not to sue, the principal debtor, discharges the surety, unless the surety assents to such contract.Discharge of surety by creditor’s act or omission impairing surety’s eventual remedy [Section 139]: If the creditor does any act which is inconsistent with the rights of the surety or omits to do any act which his duty to the surety requires him to do, and the eventual remedy of the surety himself against the principal debtor is thereby impaired, the surety is discharged.By the invalidation of the contract of guaranteeGuarantee obtained by misrepresentation [Section 142]: Any guarantee which has been obtained by means of misrepresentation made by the creditor, or with his knowledge and assent, concerning a material part of the transaction, is invalid.Guarantee obtained by concealment [Section 143]: Any guarantee which the creditor has obtained by means of keeping silence as to material circumstances is invalid.Guarantee on contract that creditor shall not act on it until co- surety joins (Section 144): Where a person gives a guarantee upon a contract that the creditor shall not act upon it until another person has joined in it as co-surety, the guarantee is not valid if that other person does not join.Question 6Alok bought some goods from Manish on credit. Later, he issued a cheque for the dues from his bank account and asked Manish to encash the cheque within two days. On the day Alok issued the cheque, there was a sufficient balance to pay Manish's dues. Manish presented the cheque after one month, which was returned due to insufficient funds. Manish made a demand for the payment, but Alok failed to pay. Manish send him notice to pay the outstanding debts. Alok ignored the notice. Manish filed a case for dishonour of the cheque. Alok defended himself on the grounds that Manish failed to encash the cheque within two days as specified by him and that he had noreason to believe at the time of issuance of the cheque that it might be dishonoured. Analyse -Whether Alok's defences are valid under the provisions of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881.Whether Manish can file a suit against Alok for dishonour of cheque and within how many days he can file the complaint after dishonour under the provisions of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881?    (7 Marks)Some agreements are held to be opposed to public policy. Define any six agreements with reference to provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872.(6 Marks)ORSome objects and consideration are unlawful. Define any six with reference to provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872.	(6 Marks)(i) What do you mean by suit for specific performance? State any two conditions when court allows this remedy according to provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930?	(3 Marks)(ii) What do you mean by right of resale? State any three conditions when the right of resale goods given to an unpaid sellers under the Sale of Goods Act, 1930.	(4 Marks)AnswerSection 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 covers dishonor of cheques for insufficiency of funds in the account.Section 138 shall not apply, unless the cheque has been presented to the bank within a period of three months from the date on which it is drawn or within the period of its validity, whichever is earlier.In the instant case, Alok’s defenses are not valid as Manish presented the cheque within one month i.e. within the validity period of three months.Section 138 shall not be applied unless the below conditions are complied with:Demand for the payment through the notice: The payee or the holder in due course of the cheque, as the case may be, makes a demand for the payment of the said amount of money by giving a notice, in writing, to the drawer of the cheque, within 30 days of the receipt of information by him from the bank regarding the return of the cheque as unpaid, andFailure of drawer to make payment: The drawer of such cheque fails to make the payment of the said amount of money to the payee or, as the case may be, to the holder in due course of the cheque, within fifteen days of the receipt of the said notice.The complaint can be filed after 45 days of dishonor of the cheque i.e., 30 days of notice period +15 days of the receipt of the said notice.Therefore, in the instant case, since Manish sent notice to Alok for outstanding debts but Alok ignored the notice, Manish can file a suit against Alok and can file a complaint within 45 days of dishonor of cheque.First Alternate:According to the provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, some of the agreements which are held to be opposed to public policy are:(1)Trading with Enemy: Any trade with person owing allegiance to a government at war with India without the licence of the Government of India is void, as the object is opposed to public policy. Here, the agreement to trade offends against the public policy by tending to prejudice the interest of the State in times of war.(2)Stifling Prosecution: An agreement to stifle prosecution i.e. “an agreement to present proceedings already instituted from running their normal course using force” tends to be a perversion or an abuse of justice; therefore, such an agreement is void. The principle is that one should not make a trade of felony. The compromise of any public offence is generally illegal.(3)Maintenance and Champerty: Maintenance is an agreement in which a person promises to maintain suit in which he has no interest.Champerty is an agreement in which a person agrees to assist another in litigation in-exchange of a promise to hand over a portion of the proceeds of the action.(4)Trafficking relating to Public Offices and Titles: An agreement to trafficking in public office is opposed to public policy, as it interferes with the appointment of a person best qualified for the service of the public. Public policy requires that there should be no money consideration for the appointment to an office in which the public is interested.(5)Agreements tending to create monopolies: Agreements having for their object the establishment of monopolies are opposed to public policy and therefore void.(6)Marriage Brokerage Agreements: An agreement to negotiate marriage for reward, which is known as a marriage brokerage contract, is void, as it is opposed to public policy.(7)Interference with the Course of Justice: An agreement whose object is to induce any judicial officer of the State to act partially or corruptly is void, as it is opposed to public policy.(8)Interest against Obligation: The following are examples of agreement that are void as they tend to create an interest against obligation. The object of such agreements is opposed to public policy.An agreement by an agent to receive without his principal’s consent compensation from another for the performance of his agency is invalid.A, who is the manager of a firm, agrees to pass a contract to X if X pays to A ` 200,000 privately; the agreement is void.(9)Consideration Unlawful in Part: By virtue of Section 24, if any part of a single consideration for one or more objects, or any one or any part of any one of several considerations for a single object, is unlawful, the agreement is void.ORSecond Alternate:Some objects and consideration are unlawfulUnder Section 23 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 in each of the following cases the consideration or object of an agreement is said to be unlawful:(i)When consideration or object is forbidden by Law: Acts forbidden by law are those which are punishable under any statute as well as those prohibited by regulations or orders made in exercise of the authority conferred by the legislature.(ii)When consideration or object are of such a nature that if permitted, it would defeat the provisions of Law: If the consideration or the object of an agreement is of such a nature that not directly but indirectly, it would defeat the provisions of the law, the agreement is void.(iii)When it is Fraudulent: Agreements which are entered into to promote Fraud are Void.(iv)The general term “injury” means criminal or wrongful harm: The object or consideration is unlawful as it involves injury to the person or property of another.(v)When consideration is Immoral: Agreements where the object or consideration is unlawful, being immoral.(vi)When consideration is opposed to Public Policy: The expression ‘public policy’ can be interpreted either in a wide or in a narrow sense. The freedom to contract may become illusory, unless the scope of ‘public policy’ is restricted. In the name of public policy, freedom of contract is restricted by law only for the good for the community.(i) Suit for Specific Performance (Section 58 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930): Where the seller commits of breach of the contract of sale, the buyer can appeal to the court for specific performance. The court can order for specific performance only when the goods are ascertained or specific.This remedy is allowed by the Court subject to these conditions:The contract must be for the sale of specific and ascertained goods.The power of the court to order specific performance is subject to provisions of Specific Relief Act of 1963.It empowers the Court to order specific performance where damages would not be an adequate remedy.It will be granted as remedy if goods are of special nature or are unique.Right of Re-Sale [Section 54 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930]: The right of re-sale is a very valuable right given to an unpaid seller. In the absence of this right, the unpaid seller’s other rights against the goods that is lien and the stoppage in transit would not have been of much use because these rights only entitled the unpaid seller to retain the goods until paid by the buyer.The unpaid seller can exercise the right to re-sell the goods under the following conditions:Where the goods are of a Perishable in Nature: In such a case, the buyer need not be informed of the intention of resale.Where he gives notice to the buyer of his intention to re-sell the goods: If after the receipt of such notice the buyer fails within a reasonable time to pay or tender the price, the seller may resell the goods.Where an unpaid seller who has exercised his right of lien or stoppage in transit re-sells the goods:The subsequent buyer acquires the good title thereof as against the original buyer, despite the fact that the notice of re-sale has not been given by the seller to the original buyer.A re-sale by the seller where a right of re-sale is expressly reserved in a contract of sale: Sometimes, it is expressly agreed between the seller and the buyer that in case the buyer makes default in payment of the price, the seller will re-sell the goods to some other person. In such cases, the seller is said to have reserved his right of re-sale and he may re-sell the goods on buyer’s default.Where the property in goods has not passed to the buyer: The unpaid seller has in addition to his remedies a right of withholding delivery of the goods. This right is similar to lien and is called “quasi-lien”. This is the additional right used in case of agreement to sell.PAPER – 2: BUSINESS LAWSQuestion No. 1 is compulsory.Attempt any four questions from the remaining five questions.Working Notes should form part of the answer.Question 1(i) Mr. VG and Mr. PG were trading in unlisted shares for the last seven years. They used to borrow funds from each other whenever required for any trade. Within a week's time, they used to refund the money to each other as per circumstances of the case. They were following this practice for the last five years. On 25th January 2025, Mr. PG wants to buy 20,000 shares of an unlisted company @ ` 500/- each. But due to insufficiency of funds, he asked Mr. VG for ` 40 lakhs. Mr. VG transferred ` 40 lakhs to Mr. PG. After about three months, Mr. VG reminded that Mr. PG had not refunded ` 40 lakhs to him till then. He asked him to pay back his money. Mr. PG told him that he was trying very hard to sell the shares at a reasonable price of 10% more than the price at which he bought these shares but was unable to do so due to market conditions. He asked Mr. VG to sell his shares on his behalf and authorised him to appropriate the amount of loan of ` 40 lakhs with interest out of the sale proceeds. Mr. VG agreed to do so.After about 15 days, when market started recovering Mr. PG denied and revoked the authorization by saying that he would sell his shares himself.With reference to provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, whether the revocation of said agency by Mr. PG was lawful?	(3 Marks)(ii) M/s GS Famous General Store in NK Market Delhi got a purchase order of 5 kg. Mamra Badam @ ` 3,400/- per kg. from Mr. PK to deliver at his residence in Rohini. When the delivery boy of M/s GS Famous General Store reached at Mr. PK's residence, he found the door locked. When the delivery boy called him on mobile telephone, he told him to hand over the goods to his neighbour Mr. Shah. Mrs. Shah was unaware of the fact that the Mamra Badam were not belonging to them, mixed the Mamra Badam with California Almond. When Mr. Shah told her that the MamraBadam were belonging to Mr. PK, she again packed the 5 kg. Mamra Badam and delivered it to Mr. PK. This fact came to light when Mr. PK returned the packet to M/s GS Famous General Store by saying that it is not up to the quality and he refused to accept the packet.In above circumstances, what is the remedy available to Mr. PK according to provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872?   (4 Marks)Do you agree that a company is an artificial person? Elucidate. Also explain how the authorization by M/s Beeta Limited, a company incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013 can be made in case it does not have a common seal.	(5 + 2 = 7 Marks)A, B and C are partners in an unregistered partnership firm named M/s ABC & Associates. Is the suit maintainable in the following cases as per the provisions of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932? Give justification also.A filed a suit against B who had stolen the goods of the firm.A filed a suit against M/s ABC & Associates for claiming shares of the assets on its dissolution.M filed a suit against the firm M/s ABC & Associates for the recovery of` 10,000/- dues from the firm. M also owed ` 4,000/-to the firm. The firm claimed a set off of ` 4,000/-.	(6 Marks)Answer(i) According to Section 202 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 an agency becomes irrevocable where the agent has himself an interest in the property which forms the subject-matter of the agency and such an agency cannot, in the absence of an express provision in the contract, be terminated to the prejudice of such interest.The rule of agency coupled with interest applies and does not come to an end even on death, insanity or the insolvency of the principal.In the instant case, Mr. PG appointed Mr. VG to sell his shares on his behalf and authorized him to appropriate the amount of loan of ` 40 lakh with interest out of the sale proceeds.Since, interest was created in favour of Mr. VG, thus the revocation of the said agency is not lawful.According to Section 157 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 if the bailee, without the consent of the bailor, mixes the goods of the bailor with his own goods, in such a manner that it is impossible to separate the goods bailed, from the other goods and deliver them back, the bailor is entitled to be compensated by the bailee for the loss of the goods.According to Section 160 & 161 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, it is the duty of bailee to return, or deliver according to the bailor's directions, the goods bailed without demand, as soon as the time for which they were bailed, has expired, or the purpose for which they were bailed has been accomplished. [Section 160]If, by the default of the bailee, the goods are not returned, delivered or tendered at the proper time, he is responsible to the bailor for any loss, destruction or deterioration of the goods from that time. [Section 161]In the given question, Mrs. Shah mixed Mamra Badam with California Almond bailed by Mr. PK and then packed without information and delivered to Mr. PK. Mamra Badam once mixed cannot be separated.As she mixed the two different kinds of almond, Mr. PK is entitled to be  compensated  by  Mr.  Shah.  He  cannot  return  goods  to M/s GS Famous General Store.Yes, I agree that a company is an Artificial Person.A Company incorporated under the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 is an artificial person as it is created by a process other than natural birth. It is legal or judicial as it is created by law.Further, the Company being a separate legal entity can own property, have banking account, raise loans, incur liabilities and enter into contracts. Even members can contract with company, acquire right against it or incur liability to it. It can sue and be sued in its own name. It can do everything which any natural person can do except be sent to jail, take an oath, marry or practice a learned profession. Hence, it is a legal person in its own sense.As the Company is an artificial person, it can act only through some human agency, viz., directors. The directors can control affairs of the company but they are not the “agents” of the members of the company. The directorscan either on their own or through the common seal, if any, (of the company) can authenticate its formal acts.Further, the Company being an artificial person has perpetual succession and it continues to exist until it is legally dissolved. The members of a company may come and go but the company will go on forever.However, the Company being an artificial person cannot have citizenship, lack of physical action and corporate veil can be lifted.Thus, a company is an artificial legal person.Authorization by a Company not having a Common Seal:In case a company does not have a common seal, the authorization shall be made by two directors or by a director and the Company Secretary, wherever the Company has appointed a Company Secretary.Hence, M/s Beeta Limited can do the authorization as mentioned in the above manner.(i)  A filed a suit against B who had stolen the goods of the firm:The said suit by A is Maintainable.Justification: According to Section 69(1) of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, a partner of an unregistered firm cannot file a suit in any court against the firm or any partner to enforce a right arising from a contract, unless the firm is registered. Section 69 only bars civil suits to enforce contractual rights. It does not prevent criminal action. But, in this case, A had filed a suit against B for stealing the goods of the firm which is a criminal offense.Hence, the suit filed against B for the theft of the goods of the firm is maintainable.A filed a suit against M/s. ABC & Associates for claiming share of the assets on its dissolutionThe said suit by A is Maintainable.Justification: According to Section 69(3) of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, a partner of an unregistered firm is precluded from bringing legal action against the firm. But such a person may sue for realization of his share in the firm’s property where the firm is dissolved. Here, A’s claimis valid as the shares are the assets of the dissolved firm and A can claim it even if the firm is unregistered.M filed a suit against the firm for recovery of `10,000/- dues. M also owed `4,000/-. The firm claimed a set-off.The said suit by M is MaintainableJustification: According to Section 69(2) of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, in case of an unregistered firm, an action can be brought against the firm by a third party. If an action is brought against the firm by a third party, then neither the firm nor the partner can claim any set-off, if the suit be valued for more than ` 100 or pursue other proceedings to enforce the rights arising from any contract.Here, M filed a suit against the firm for the recovery of `10,000 dues from the firm. M also owed `4,000/- to the firm.The firm cannot set-off the claim of `4,000/- as it is more than `100/. – Nevertheless, M is entitled for recovery of ` 10,000 from firm.Question 2(i)  X offered to sell Y a machine for ` 5,00,000/-. Y refused to buy it unless the machine is made into a running condition. X agreed to do the same but while the machine was being repaired, it was destroyed without the fault of any person. With reference to the relevant provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 examine whether X can recover the price from Y?(4 Marks)(ii) For the purpose of making uniforms for the employees, VK bought dark blue coloured cloth from PK. But did not disclose to the PK the purpose of the said purchase. When uniforms were prepared and used by the employees, the cloth was found unfit. However, there was evidence that the cloth was fit for caps and boots. Advise VK whether he is entitled to have any remedy, as per the provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930.(3 Marks)Explain the Memorandum of Association (MOA) and Articles of Association (AOA) of a company. Also explain any three differences between MOA and AOA.	(7 Marks)Five close friends decided to form a Limited Liability Partnership firm 'EDUDED LLP' for educating poor children as non-profit organization. They were Mr. A (Non-resident), Mr. B (Non-Resident), Ms. C (resident), Ms. D (resident) and Ms. E (resident). It was decided that Mr. A and Mr. B will be appointed as designated partners.With reference to provisions of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008, answer each of the following:Whether EDUDED LLP can be formed for above purpose?Whether Mr. A and Mr. B can be appointed as designated partners in EDUDED LLP?	(6 Marks)Answer(i) According to the provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930, in case of ‘specific goods’, the property shall pass on the formation of contract only if the goods are specific (Section 19).Goods are in a deliverable state i.e. the seller has done all that he is required to do, to put the goods in such a state that the buyer shall be bound to take the delivery of the same (Section 20).If the seller is bound to do something in respect of the goods to put them in a deliverable state and he is not yet done the same, then the possession of goods shall pass on to the buyer in the future, when the seller does what is required to do and brings the same to the knowledge of the buyer. (Section 21).In the given case, the seller X was required to conduct repairs in respect of the machine before he buys the same. Thus, the possession of property intends to take place when the repairs are conducted by X and Y has the knowledge of the same. Since the machine is destroyed before repairs could be completed, the possession of property has not taken place.The risk of loss vests with X and therefore cannot recover the price from Y.ALTERNATE ANSWER(i) Goods perishing before sale but after agreement to sell (Section 8 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930): Where there is an agreement to sellspecific goods, and subsequently the goods without any fault on the part of the seller or buyer perish or become so damaged that they no longer answer to their description in the agreement before the risk passes to the buyer, the agreement is thereby avoided or becomes void.In the instant case, the machine was destroyed without the fault of any person while being repaired. X cannot recover the price from Y as the performance of contract became impossible due to supervening impossibility.(ii) According to Section 16(1) of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930, normally in a contract of sale, there is no implied condition or warranty as to quality or fitness for any particular purpose of goods supplied.The general rule is that of “Caveat Emptor” that is “let the buyer beware”.But where the buyer expressly or impliedly makes known to the seller the particular purpose for which the goods are required and also relies on the seller’s skill and judgement and that this is the business of the seller to sell such goods in the ordinary course of his business, the buyer can make the seller responsible.In the given case, VK purchased the dark blue coloured cloth from PK without informing him i.e. uniforms would be prepared and used by employees. Therefore, VK cannot make PK responsible on the ground that cloth was found unfit.VK cannot treat it as a breach of implied condition as to fitness and quality and has no right to recover damages from PK.In view of the above, VK will not succeed in getting any remedy as per the provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930.Memorandum of Association (MoA)The Memorandum of Association of Company is in fact its charter; it defines its constitution and the scope of the powers of the company with which it has been established under the Act. It contains the fundamental conditions upon which alone the Company can be incorporated. It is the very foundation on which the whole edifice of the company is built.Articles of Association (AoA)The Articles of Association of a Company are its Rules and Regulations, which are framed to manage its internal affairs. Just as the Memorandum contains the fundamental conditions upon which the company is allowed to be incorporated, so also the articles are the internal regulations of the Company. Articles of Association is in fact, the Rules, Regulations and Bye Laws for the internal management of the affairs of the Company.The following are the key differences between the Memorandum of Association and the Articles of Association:Clauses - Under Section 4 of the Companies Act, 2013, a Memorandum of Association (MOA) must contain six mandatory clauses viz., the Name Clause, Registered Office Clause, Object Clause, Liability Clause, Capital Clause, and Subscription Clause. These clauses, which serve as a company's charter, define its fundamental identity, scope of operations, and the relationship between the company and the outside world.Whereas the Articles of Association of a Company shall contain the regulations for management of the company. Them Articles shall also contain such matters, as may be prescribed but nothing prescribed in this sub-section shall be deemed to prevent a Company from including such additional matters in its Articles as may be considered necessary for its management.Objectives: Memorandum of Association defines and delimits the objectives of the company whereas the Articles of association lays down the rules and regulations for the internal management of the company. Articles determine how the objectives of the company are to be achieved.Relationship: Memorandum defines the relationship of the company with the outside world and Articles define the relationship between the company and its members.Alteration: Memorandum of association can be altered only under certain circumstances and in the manner provided for in the Act. In most cases permission of the Regional Director, or the Tribunal is required. The articles can be altered simply by passing a special resolution.Ultra Vires: Acts done by the company beyond the scope of the memorandum are ultra-vires and void. These cannot be ratified even by the unanimous consent of all the shareholders. The acts ultra-vires the articles can be ratified by a special resolution of the shareholders, provided they are not beyond the provisions of the memorandum.(i) According to Section 11 of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008, the essential requirement of forming LLP is carrying on a lawful business with a view to earn profit. EDUDED LLP cannot be formed for educating poor children as a non-profit organization.In view of the above, a LLP cannot be formed for charitable or non- economic purpose.(ii) Designated Partners (Section 7 of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008):Every LLP shall have at least two designated partners who are individuals and at least one of them shall be a Resident in India.For the purpose of this section, the term Resident in India means a person who has stayed in India for a period of not less than 120 days during the financial year.As EDUDED LLP cannot be formed because its purpose is for non-profit organization, the question of appointing Mr. A and Mr. B as designated partners does not arise.Note: However, if the EDUDED LLP can be formed, Mr. A and Mr. B cannot be appointed as designated partners in EDUDED LLP as both are Non-Resident and the condition that at least one designated partner must be a resident in India is not fulfilled. Therefore, one designated partner must be either Ms. C or Ms. D or Ms. E as all three of them are resident.Question 3M/s M&M Associates was registered in 1985 by its three partners namely Mr. X, Mr. Y and Mr. Z as the partnership at will. On 5th January 2022, Mr. X, being a very senior partner of age 75 years decided to retire and transfer his shares in the firm to his grandson Mr. S, who was 17 years old at the time of the transfer. Mr. Y and Mr. Z were not interested but when they came to know that Mr. S is a minor, they agreed to admit Mr. S as partner.On 5th October, 2023 at the time of inspection of books and accounts, Mr. S noticed that the books of accounts were displaying only a small amount as profit despite a huge turnover. When, he asked other partners about this fact, then Mr. Y told him that one of the major clients, Mr. T refused to pay huge amount of fees. Mr. S decided to sue Mr. T for recovery of fees and sent a notice for the same. Mr. T argued that Mr. S cannot sue him because he has not given notice of remaining a partner on attaining majority.With reference to provisions of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 decide:Whether Mr. X can retire and introduce Mr. S (minor) as a partner?Whether Mr. S has right to inspect books of accounts?Whether Mr. S has authority to sue Mr. T, on non-payment of fees?(7 Marks)Mr. RM was engaged in the trading of handloom items with his wife. One of their friends suggested that they should form a private limited company. By corporatizing their business, they could gain better recognition and even explore export opportunities.They established M/s RM Private Limited with both as the sole members. They got the work orders on job basis from local artisans, sold their products in the Indian market, and exported them as well. The company also secured a line of credit from the bank amounting to ` 30 lakhs.Tragically, Mr. RM met with an accident and passed away. Now Mrs. RM was the only member in the private limited company. A family friend suggested including her brother as a member, but she declined. Instead, she decided to convert the private limited company into a One Person Company (OPC) and nominate her brother, Mr. AK, who is currently employed in London, UK.Examine with reference to the Companies Act, 2013:Whether Mrs. RM's decision to convert the private limited company into a One Person Company (OPC) is legally valid; andWhen Mrs. RM's decision to nominate her brother Mr. AK, as a nominee, is not legally valid?	(7 Marks)A, B, and C act as co-sureties for a loan of ` 4,00,000/- taken by R from XYZ Bank. There are three bonds specifying different liability limits for each surety such as A's liability is limited to ` 1,00,000/-, B's liability is limited to` 2,00,000/- and C's liability is limited to ` 4,00,000/-. Due to financial difficulties, R defaults on the loan, and the bank seeks to recover the amount from the sureties.As per the provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872,Analyse and determine the amount each co-surety (A, B, and C) is liable to pay, andWhat will be your answer if the loan amount is ` 6,00,000/-instead of` 4,00,000/-?	(6 Marks)Answer(i) As per the provisions of Section 32 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, (the Act) a partner may retire:with the consent of all the other partners;in accordance with an express agreement by the partners; orwhere the partnership is at will, by giving notice in writing to all the other partners of his intention to retire.However, a minor cannot be admitted as a partner in a firm. A minor can only be admitted to the benefits of partnership with the consent of all partners.As the partnership is at will, Mr. X can retire from the firm by giving notice in writing to all the other partners of his intention to retire and Mr. S, being a minor, can only be admitted to the benefits of partnership under Section 30 of the Act with the consent of all the existing partners.Within 6 months of his attaining majority or on his obtaining knowledge that he had been admitted to the benefits of the partnership, whichever is later, the minor partner has to decide whether he shall remain as a partner or leave the firm.If he has elected not to become a partner, he may give a public notice in this regard and failure to do so, he shall become a partner in the firm after the expiry of the said 6 months.As Mr. S failed to give the public notice whether he elected to become or not to become a partner of the firm, after expiry of 6 months from obtaining the majority, he will become the partner of the firm.As per Section 12(d) of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, every partner has the right to access and to inspect and to copy any of the books of the firm.Therefore, Mr. S, in the given case, in the capacity of the being a partner by 5th of October, 2023, have right to inspect the books of accounts. The right, must, however, be exercise Bonafide.According to Section 69 of the Act, the firm or any other person on its behalf cannot bring an action against a third party for breach of contract entered into by the firm, unless the firm is registered and the persons suing are or have been shown in the register of firms as partners in the firm.In other words, a registered firm can only file a suit against a third party and the persons suing have been in the register of firms as partners in the firm.In view of the above provisions of law, since Mr. S is now a member of the Registered Firm, he has the authority to sue Mr. T for non-payment of fees.In view of the above provisions of law, since Mr. S is now a member of the Registered Firm, he has the authority to sue Mr. T for non-payment of fees.(iii) ALTERNATE ANSWER:Within 6 months of attaining majority or on obtaining knowledge that a minor partner had been admitted to the benefits of partnership, whichever date is later, the minor partner has to decide whether he shall remain a partner or leave the firm.Where he has elected not to become partner, he may give public notice that he has elected not to become partner, and such notice shall determine his position with regard to the firm.If he fails to give such notice, he shall become a partner in the firm on the expiry of the said six months.As Mr. S became major on 5th January 2023 and after six months i.e. 5th July 2023, he shall become a partner in the firm as he has not given notice of not becoming a partner.Therefore, Mr. S has authority to sue Mr. T on non-payment of fee as no notice is required for remaining as a partner on attaining majority.(i) A Private Limited Company can be converted into an OPC if it meets the eligibility criteria under Section 2(62) of the Companies Act, 2013.An OPC can have only one member and the Memorandum of OPC shall indicate the name of the other person, who shall, in the event of the subscriber's death or his incapacity to contract, become the member of the Company.The member of OPC may at any time change the name of such other person by giving notice to the company and the company shall intimate the same to the registrar.No person shall be eligible to become nominee in more than one OPC.Further only a natural person who is an Indian citizen whether resident in India or otherwise-shall be eligible to incorporate a One Person Company;shall be a nominee for the sole member of a One Person Company.Explanation I - For the purposes of this rule, the term “resident in India” means a person who has stayed in India for a period of not less than one hundred and twenty days during the immediately preceding financial year.In view of the above, in the given case, Mrs. RM's decision to convert the Company into an OPC is legally valid.(ii) Nominating Mr. AK may not be valid if he does not meet the residency requirement (i.e., if he has not stayed in India for at least 120 days in the preceding financial year). In that case, Mrs. RM must nominate another Indian resident.(ii) ALTERNATE ANSWERHere, Mrs. RM’s decision to nominate her brother Mr. AK, as a nominee is not legally valid in the case where he has obtained the foreign citizenship being in employment in London UK.Note: Since nothing is specified as regards the citizenship of Mr. AK, a benefit of doubt may be given to the students who assumes that Mr. AK has obtained the UK citizenship being therein employment. In that case he may lose the Indian Citizenship and shall be disqualified to be nominated as a nominee.Co-sureties liable to contribute equally (Section 146 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872): Unless otherwise agreed, each surety is liable to contribute equally for discharge of whole debt or part of the debt remains unpaid by debtor.Liability of co-sureties bound in different sums (Section 147): The principle of equal contribution is, however, subject to the maximum limit fixed by a surety to his liability. Co-sureties who are bound in different sums are liable to pay equally as far as the limits of their respective obligations permit.In the instant case,A, B and C act as co-sureties for a loan of ` 4,00,000 taken by R from XYZ bank. As per specific bonds by each of them, A’s liability is limited to ` 1,00,000, B’s liability is limited to ` 2,00,000 and C’s Liability is limited to ` 4,00,000. R makes the default of ` 4,00,000.Based on the above provisions, A, B and C were liable for contribution subject to maximum limit fixed as per their specific bonds.Therefore, A is liable to pay 1,00,000 rupees, and B and C ` 1,50,000 rupees each.If the loan amounts to ` 6,00,000, A is liable to pay 1,00,000 rupees, B is liable to pay ` 2,00,000 and C is liable to pay 3,00,000.Question 4With reference to provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, analyse the given situations and answer each of the following questions:Mr. X visited a Cosmo Mega Mall at Nagpur, which has a variety of items for day-to-day use. The mall has a self-service system. Mr. X took a basket, picked up ten different items of his choice, and reached the cashier for payments. The cashier accepted the price of nine items but did not accept the price of remaining one item which was at the highest price of ` 10,050/- among the ten items.Decide as per the provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 whether the Cosmo Mega Mall be compelled to sell the said article to Mr. X.(4 Marks)Mr. AT completed his M. Tech. qualification in April 2022. He got married with Ms. Priya in November 2022. He got an appointment as Technical Consultant in a very renowned company in USA on 2nd February 2023. He promised his wife that he will send ` 30,000/- per month for her daily routine expenses. Mr. AT went to USA on 25th October 2023. He never sent any money to his wife. Mrs. Priya was not in a position to meet her daily expenses. She was facing severe financial issues regarding rent and other maintenance expenses. On 20th March 2024 during her telephonic discussion with Mr. AT, she came to know that he would never send her money. Due to her financial hardships, she decided to file a suit against him for ` 7,50,000/-. Whether Mrs. Priya would be able to recover the above amount according to provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872?(3 Marks)"Negotiable Instruments is an instrument which is freely transferable from one person to another by mere delivery or by endorsement and delivery." Classify the different types of Negotiable instruments according to manner in which it is made as per the provisions of the Negotiable Instrument Act, 1881.	(7 Marks)Define Law and explain various sources of Law.	(6 Marks)Answer(i) Invitation to Offer: The offer should be distinguished from an invitation to offer. In terms of Section 2(a) of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, an offer is the final expression of willingness by the offeror to be bound by his offer should the party chooses to accept it.Where a party, without expressing his final willingness, proposes certain terms on which he is willing to negotiate, he does not make an offer, but invites only the other party to make an offer on those terms. This is the basic distinction between offer and invitation to offer.The display of items with a price in it in a self-service system is merely an invitation to offer. It is in no sense an offer for sale, the acceptance of which constitutes a contract.In this case, Mr. X by selecting some items and approaching the cashier for payment simply made an offer to buy the items selected by him. If the cashier does not accept the price, Mr. X cannot compel him to sell.Accordingly, in view of the above, Mr. X cannot compel the Cashier / Cosmo Mega Mall to sell the 10th article.(ii) As per Section 2(h) of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 a contract is an agreement enforceable by law. It means that to become a contract an agreement must give rise to a legal obligation which means duly enforceable by law.As per Section 10 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, there must be an intention on the part of the parties to create legal relationship between them. Social or domestic type of agreements are not enforceable in court of law and hence they do not result into contracts.In the given case, Mr. AT and Mrs. Priya had not entered into an agreement which is legally enforceable by law.As per the facts of the case, Mr. AT agreed to pay to his wife Mrs. Priya` 30,000 per month while he was abroad. Mr. AT failed to pay the promised amount. Mrs. Priya sued him for the recovery of the amount.In view of the above, Mrs. Priya cannot recover any amount as it was a social agreement and the parties did not intend to create any legal relationships.Negotiable Instruments: Negotiable Instruments is an instrument which is freely transferable from one person to another by mere delivery or by endorsement and delivery.The property in such an instrument pass to a Bonafide transferee for value.Classification of Negotiable Instruments according to manner in which it is made in terms of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (the Act).“Bearer Instrument” and “Order Instrument” [Section 13]Bearer Instrument: It is an instrument where the name of the payee is blank or where the name of payee is specified with the words “or bearer” or where the last indorsement is blank. Such instrument can be negotiated by mere delivery.Order Instrument: It is an instrument which is payable to a person or Payable to a person or his order or Payable to order of a person or where the last indorsement is in full, such instrument can be negotiated by indorsement and delivery.“Inland Instrument” and “Foreign Instrument” [Sections 11 & 12]“Inland Instrument”: A promissory note, bill of exchange or cheque drawn or made in India and made payable in, or drawn upon any person resident in India shall be deemed to be an inland instrument.“Foreign Instrument”: A foreign instrument is one which is not an inland instrument.Inchoate and Ambiguous InstrumentsInchoate Instrument: It means an instrument that is incomplete in certain respects. The drawer/ maker/ acceptor/ endorser of a negotiable instrument may sign and deliver the instrument to another person in his capacity leaving the instrument, either wholly blank or having written on it the word incomplete.Ambiguous Instrument: As per Section 17, where an instrument may be construed either as a promissory note or bill of exchange,the holder may at his election treat it as either and the instrument shall be thenceforward treated accordingly.What is Law?Law is a set of obligations and duties imposed by the government for securing welfare and providing justice to society. India’s legal framework reflects the social, political, economic, and cultural aspects of our vast and diversified country.Sources of LawThe main sources of law in India are:the Constitution,the Statutes or Laws made by Parliament and State Assemblies,Precedents or the Judicial Decisions of various Courts and in some cases, established Customs and Usages.The elected representatives of the people to the Parliament and to the Legislative Assemblies of various States make laws in the Parliament or in the State Assemblies.The Constitution of India, 1950 is the foremost law that deals with the framework within which our democratic system works, and our laws are made for the people, by the people.The Constitution also provides for and protects certain Fundamental Rights of citizens.It also lays down Fundamental duties as well as the powers and duties of Governments, both Central and State.The laws in India are interconnected with each other forming a hybrid legal system.The people who wrote the Constitution decided to divide the law-making power between the Central Government and the various State Governments. So, the Indian Constitution has three lists Viz., Central List, State List and Joint List.A matter would become the subject matter for Central Law or a State Law depending on the List.Question 5(i)  Ms. S visits an electronic store and asks for a laptop suitable for high-end graphic design work. The salesman recommends a specific model, assuring her that it will meet her needs. Relying on this advice, Ms. S purchases the laptop. However, after using it, she realises that the laptop lacks the necessary processing power and graphics capability for her work.Can Ms. S take legal action against the seller under the Sale of Goods Act, 1930? Justify your answer.	(3 Marks)Mr. S was going through severe financial hardships. His wife suggested to take a gold loan. On 15th January 2025, he pledged his wife's jewellery worth ` 30 lakhs with one of his friend Mr. R and took a loan of ` 25 lakhs. On 17th January 2025, he sold total jewellery for ` 28 lakhs to M/s RL Jewellers Pitampura. The jeweller purchased it in good faith without knowing the fact that the jewellery was already pledged. After all this, Mr. S declared himself insolvent. When Mr. R came to know about this, he filed a suit against M/s RL Jewellers. But M/s RL Jewellers contended that they were unaware about pledge. With reference to provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 what is the remedial action available to Mr. R?	(4 Marks)(i)  M/s SR Enterprises is a well-known trading firm. Mr. AM, a former partner of the firm, had retired in 2022 but never made any public announcement about his retirement. In 2024, Mr. R, a supplier, entered into a business transaction with M/s SR Enterprises believing that Mr. AM was still a partner in the firm. He relied on Mr. AM's past association with the firm and extended a credit line to the firm. When M/s SR Enterprises defaulted on payment, Mr. R, demanded that Mr. AM also be held liable for the dues. Mr. AM refused, stating that he was no longer a partner in the firm and had no involvement in the firm's affairs for long time. Examine with reference to the provisions of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 whether Mr. AM can be held liable for the firm's above debt.(3 Marks)M/s LMP & Associates, a partnership firm engaged in carpet manufacturing and exporting, was initially managed by senior partners L, M, and P. On 25th August, 2022, the firm admitted Mr. G, an expert incarpet manufacturing, as a partner. However, on 10th January, 2024, Mr. G was accused of unauthorized activities and subsequently expelled from the partnership with the unanimous approval of the remaining partners.With reference to the provisions of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, answer each of the following:Examine whether action by the partners was justified or not?What are the factors which should be kept in mind prior to expelling a partner from the firm by other partners?	(4 Marks)State with reference to the provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 whether the following are True or False with justification.The pledge of documents of title to goods by a mercantile agent with the consent of an owner is invalid pledge.A appoints B as his agent to sell A's land. Subsequently, under the authority of A, B appoints C as his agent. Later on, A revokes the authority of B, but not that of C. Consequently, the authority of C cannot be terminated.The contract of life insurance is not fully covered under the contract of indemnity.	(6 Marks)Answer(i) Fitness as to Quality or Use [Section 16 (1) of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930]According to Section 16(1) of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 there is implied condition on the part of the seller that the goods supplied shall be reasonably fit for the purpose for which the buyer wants them, provided the following conditions are fulfilled:The buyer should have made known to the seller the particular purpose for which goods are required.The buyer should rely on the skill and judgement of the seller.The goods must be of a description dealt in by the seller, whether he be a manufacturer or not.In some cases, the purpose may be ascertained from the conduct of the parties or from the nature of the goods sold. Where the goods can be used only for one purpose, the buyer need not tell the seller the purpose for which he requires the goods.In the instant case, Ms. S clearly informed the Seller that she needed a laptop for high end graphic design work. The Seller recommended a model, creating an implied condition that it would be suitable for that purpose. The laptop failed to meet the required performance standards, breaching the implied condition of fitness.Ms. S can take legal action against the seller. The seller breached the implied condition as to fitness for purpose, since the laptop recommended was not suitable for high-end graphic design work.(ii) According to Section 30(1) of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930, if a person has sold goods but continues to be in possession of them or of the documents of title to them, he may sell them to a third person, and if such person obtains the delivery thereof in good faith and without notice of the previous sale, he would have good title to them, although the property in the goods had passed to the first buyer earlier.A pledge or other disposition of the goods or documents of title by the seller in possession are equally valid.Therefore, in the instant case, RL Jewellers have got good title over the jewellery sold by Mr. S and Mr. R cannot take any action against RL Jewellers. However, Since Mr. S has violated the condition of pledge, he can claim only from the property of Mr. S as he has become insolvent.ALTERNATE ANSWERCondition as to Title [Section 14(a)]: In every contract of sale, unless there is an agreement to the contrary, the first implied condition on the part of the seller is thatin case of a sale, he has a right to sell the goods, andin the case of an agreement to sell, he will have right to sell the goods at the time when the property is to pass.In simple words, the condition implied is that the seller has the right to sell the goods (means he should be the real owner) at the time when the property is to pass. If the seller’s title/ownership turns out to be defective, the buyer must return the goods to the true owner and recover the price from the seller.Warranty as to non-existence of encumbrances [Section 14(c)]: An implied warranty that the goods shall be free from any charge or encumbrance in favour of any third party not declared or known to the buyer before or at the time the contract is entered into.In every agreement of sale, it is an implied condition that the Seller will have a right to sell the goods at the time when the property is to pass.In the above case Mr. S was not real owner as he already pledges the jewellery to Mr. R.On the other hand, it is implied warranty that the goods will be free from any charge and encumbrance. In above case Mr. S has not disclosed encumbrance to Jewellers and sold jewellery.Thus, M/s RL Jewellers will not be liable to return the jewellery for which he already paid. Mr. R can file a suit against Mr. S. But here in this situation S declared himself insolvent. So, Mr. R can recover from property of Mr. S only.(i) Retirement of a Partner (Section 32 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932): A partner may retire:with the consent of all the other partners;in accordance with an express agreement by the partners; orwhere the partnership is at will, by giving notice in writing to all the other partners of his intention to retire.Notwithstanding the retirement of a partner from a firm, he and the partners continue to be liable as partners to third parties for any act done by any of them which would have been an act of the firm if done before the retirement, until public notice is given of the retirement.However, a retired partner is not liable to any third party who deals with the firm without knowing that he was a partner.In the instant case, Mr. AM can be held liable for the firm’s debt as no public notice was given of his retirement and Mr. R entered into a business transaction with M/s SR Enterprises believing that Mr. AM was still a partner in the firm.ALTERNATE ANSWER:Partner by Holding Out (Section 28):Partnership by holding out is also known as partnership by estoppel. When a person represent himself, or knowingly permits himself, to be represented as a partner in a firm (when in fact he is not) he is liable, like a partner in the firm to anyone who on the faith of such representation has given credit to the firm.The Rule given in Section 28 is also applicable to a former partner who has retired from the firm without giving proper public notice of his retirement. In such cases a person who, even subsequent to the retirement, give credit to the firm on the belief that he was a partner, will be entitled to hold him liable.In the instant case, Mr. AM, despite retiring, did not publicly notify his disassociation from the firm. Since, Mr. R, the supplier, believed in good faith that Mr. AM was still a partner and extended credit based on this assumption, Mr. AM can be held liable as a “Partner by holding out”.(1) Expulsion of a Partner (Section 33 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932): A partner may not be expelled from a firm by a majority of partners except in exercise, in good faith, of powers conferred by contract between the partners.The test of good faith as required under Section 33(1) includes three things:The expulsion must be in the interest of the partnership.The partner to be expelled is served with a notice.He is given an opportunity of being heard.If a partner is otherwise expelled, the expulsion is null and void.Action by the partners of M/s LMP & Associates, a partnership firm to expel Mr. G from the partnership was justified as he was expelled byunanimous approval of the partners exercised in good faith to protect the interest of the partnership against the unauthorized activities charged against Mr. G. Provided, a proper notice and opportunity of being heard has been given to Mr. G.Factors to be kept in mind before expelling a PartnerThe following are the factors to be kept in mind prior to the expelling of a partner from the firm by other partners:the power of expulsion must have existed in a contract between the partners;the power has been exercised by a majority of the partners; andit has been exercised in good faith.(i)  The given statement is FalseJustification: According to Section 178 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, a mercantile agent, who is in the possession of goods or document of title, with the consent of owner, can pledge them while acting in the ordinary course of business as a Mercantile Agent.Provided such Pledge shall be valid as if were made with the authority of the owner of goods and the Pawnee has acted in good faith and has no notice that the Pawnor has no authority to pledge.The given statement is FalseJustification: According to Section 210 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, the termination of the authority of an agent causes the termination (subject to the rules herein contained regarding the termination of an agent’s authority) of the authority of all sub-agents appointed by him. In the given question, B is the agent of A, and C is the agent of B. Hence, C becomes a sub agent. Thus, when A revokes the authority of B(agent), it results in termination of authority of sub agent appointed by B i.e. C (sub-agent).The given statement is TrueJustification: As per Section 124 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, the term “Contract of Indemnity” is defined as “a contract by which one party promises to save the other from loss caused to him by the conduct of the promisor himself, or by the conduct of any otherperson.” In case of a contract of insurance, the loss may happen due to natural calamities, and not due to conduct of the promisor or any person. Thus, a contract of Life Insurance is not contracts of indemnity as per definition given.Question 6(i) Mr. K draws a bill of exchange payable 60 days after sight to Mr. J. Mr. J holds the bill for 30 days before presenting it to Mr. N, the drawee, for acceptance. Mr. N accepts the bill upon presentation. Decide as per the provisions of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, when does the maturity period of the bill commence?	(3 Marks)A promissory note is made payable at a specific place on a fixed date. The holder, Mr. Mohan presents the note for payment two days after the due date because of unforeseen circumstances.Decide each of the following as per the provisions of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881:Does the delay in presentation affect Mr. Mohan's right to recover the amount?	(2 Marks)Under what circumstances can a delay in presentation be excused according to the Act.	(2 Marks)Consent is said to be free when it is not caused by 'Fraud'. According to provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, answer each of the following:What do you mean by 'Fraud'?What would be effect of fraud upon validity of a contract and state the instances in which a contract is not voidable?	(6 Marks)ORWhat is the meaning of the term Quantum Meruit? Explain any four cases in which a claim for quantum meruit can arise.	(6 Marks)Contract of sale resembles with contracts of hire-purchase. However, sale is distinguished from hire-purchase. Explain hire-purchase agreement and state any five points of distinction between Sale and Hire-purchase.(7 Marks)Answer(i)  According to Section 61 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, when a bill is made payable “after sight”, the maturity period is calculated from the date of acceptance of the bill by the drawee. The period of holding the bill by the payee before presenting it for acceptance does not affect the commencement of the maturity period.In the present case, Mr. K draws a bill payable 60 days after sight in favour of Mr. J. Although Mr. J keeps the bill for 30 days before presenting it to Mr. N, the drawee, the maturity period will not begin until the date on which Mr. N accepts the bill.Therefore, the maturity period of the bill commences from the date of acceptance by Mr. N.(A) No, Mr. Mohan’s right to recover the amount does not get affected due to the delay in presentation of the promissory note two days after the due date because of unforeseen circumstances as it is provided under Section 75A of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881.ALTERNATE ANSWERYes, the delay in presentation could affect Mr. Mohan's right to recover the amount. According to section 64 of the Act, a promissory note must be presented for payment at maturity. Failure to do so may discharge the maker from liability to the extent of any loss caused by the delay.Excuse for delay in presentment for acceptance or payment (Section 75A)Delay in presentment for acceptance or payment is excused if the delay is caused by circumstances beyond the control of the holder, and not imputable to his default, misconduct or negligence. When the cause of the delay ceases to operate, presentment must be made within a reasonable time.(i) Meaning of Fraud: (Section 17 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872): ‘Fraud’ means and includes any of the following acts committed by a party to a contract, or with his connivance, or by his agent, with anintent to deceive another party thereto or his agent, or to induce him to enter into the contract:the suggestion, as a fact, of that which is not true, by one who does not believe it to be true;the active concealment of a fact by one having knowledge or belief of the fact;a promise made without any intention of performing it;any other act fitted to deceive;any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent.Effect of Fraud upon validity of a contract: When the consent to an agreement in caused by the fraud, the contract is voidable at option of the party defrauded and he has the following remedies:He can rescind the contract within a reasonable time.He can sue for damages.He can insist on the performance of the contract on the condition that he shall be put in the position in which he would have been had the representation made been true.Exception: In the following cases, contract is not voidable:If the party whose consent was caused by silence which amounting to fraud, had the means of discovering the truth with ordinary diligence.A fraud which did not cause the consent of the party to agreement.ORQuantum Meruit: Where one person has rendered service to another in circumstances which indicate an understanding between them that it is to be paid for although no particular remuneration has been fixed, the law will infer a promise to pay. Quantum Meruit i.e. as much as the party doing the service has deserved. It covers a case where the party injured by the breach had at the time of breach done only a part but not all of the work which he is bound to do under the contract and seeks to be compensated for the value of the work done.For the application of this doctrine, two conditions must be fulfilled:It is only available if the original contract has been discharged.The claim must be brought by a party not in default.The claim for quantum meruit arises in the following cases:When an agreement is discovered to be void or when a contract becomes void.When something is done without any intention to do so gratuitously.Where there is an express or implied contract to render services but there is no agreement as to remuneration.When one party abandons or refuses to perform the contract.Where a contract is divisible and the party not in default has enjoyed the benefit of part performance.When an indivisible contract for a lump sum is completely performed but badly the person who has performed the contract can claim the lump sum, but the other party can make a deduction for bad work.Contract of sale resembles with contracts of hire purchase very closely, and indeed the real object of a contract of hire purchase is the sale of the goods ultimately.Hire Purchase Agreements are governed by the Hire-purchase Act, 1972.The term “hire-purchase agreement” means an agreement under which goods are let on hire and under which the hirer has an option to purchase them in accordance with the terms of the agreement and includes an agreement under which—Possession of goods is delivered by the owner thereof to a person on condition that such person pays the agreed amount in periodical instalments, andThe property in the goods is to pass to such person on the payment of the last of such instalments, andSuch person has a right to terminate the agreement at any time before the property so passes.The main points of distinction between the ‘Sale’ and ‘Hire-Purchase’ are as follows:Basis of DifferenceSaleHire-PurchaseTime	of	passing propertyProperty in the goods is transferred to the buyer immediately at the time of contract.The property in goods passes to the hirer upon payment of the last instalment.Position of the partyThe position of the buyer is that of the owner of the goods.The position of the hirer is that of a bailee till he pays the last instalment.Termination	of contractThe buyer cannot terminate	the contract and is bound to pay the price of the goods.The hirer may, if he so likes, terminate the contract by returning the goods to its owner without any liability to pay the remaining instalments.Burden of Risk of insolvency of the buyerThe seller takes the risk of any loss resulting from the insolvency of the buyer.The owner takes no such risk, for if the hirer fails to pay an instalment, the owner has right to take back the goods.Transfer of titleThe buyer can pass a good title to a bona fide purchaser from him.The hirer cannot pass any title even to a bona fide purchaser until he pays the last instalment.ResaleThe buyer in sale can resell the goods.The hire purchaser cannot resell unless he has paid all the instalments.PAPER – 2: BUSINESS LAWSQuestion No. 1 is compulsory.Attempt any four questions from the remaining five questions.Working notes should form part of the answers.Question 1ABC Infrastructure Ltd. was running business successfully from several years. P was the purchase manager of company. He authorized his agent Q to buy Raw Material on his behalf for construction of Roads in Delhi. He instructed Q to buy only Mazboot Brand of Cement @ ` 2,000 – 2,500 per ton to maintain quality of Roads in Delhi. However, Q bought 1,000 tons of Mazboot Brand of cement from Mr. R a very well-known vendor of ABC Infrastructure Ltd. @ `3,500/- per ton. Mr. Q has not disclosed the fact to R that he was buying cement for ABC Infrastructure Ltd. When P discovered this aspect, he refused to pay Mr. R and rejects the cement bought by Q on the ground that Q has exceeded the authority. Mr. R suffered a huge loss on account of this transaction. Give your opinion in accordance with provisions from the Indian Contract Act, 1872:Whether P was bound to pay Mr. R for cement purchased by his agent Mr. Q?On the other hand, Q being agent refused to accept any liability to compensate R. In this situation, Whether Mr. R can file a suit against Q?	(7 Marks)(i) State with reasons whether the following companies can be treated as Small Companies with reference to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013:STS Pvt. Ltd., having a turnover of ` 10 crores and the paid-up capital of ` 1 crore (1,00,000 equity shares of ` 100 each). Out of these 60,000 equity shares are held by UV Infratech Pvt. Ltd.ZX Ltd., having a paid-up capital of ` 3 crores and turnover of` 35 crores.	(4 Marks)(ii) The paid-up equity share capital of ACD Ltd. is ` 80 crores & preference share capital of ` 20 crores. B Ltd. holds equity shares in ACD Ltd. worth ` 15 crores and preference shares worth ` 10 crores.Can B Ltd. be considered as an Associate Company of ACD Ltd.?(3 Marks)In accordance with provisions of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, explain the following:The rights of an outgoing partner to carry on competing business.The rights of a partner to be indemnified by the firm and the liability of a partner to indemnify the firm.	(6 Marks)AnswerPrincipal’s liability when agent exceeds authority [Section 227 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872]: When an agent does more than he is authorised to do, and when the part of what he does, which is within his authority, can be separated from the part which is beyond his authority, so much only of what he does as is within his authority is binding as between him and his principal.Principal not bound when excess of agent’s authority is not separable [Section 228]: Where an agent does more than he is authorized to do, and what he does beyond the scope of his authority cannot be separated from what is within it, the principal is not bound to recognize the transaction.When the agent exceeds his authority, misleads the third person in believing that the agent has the requisite authority in doing the act, then the agent can be made liable personally for the breach of warranty of authority.When the agent does not disclose the name of the principal then there arises a presumption that he himself undertakes to be personally liable.In the instant case, Q violated the instructions of P by buying cement at` 3,500 per ton, which is beyond the authorized price limit. Furthermore,Q did not disclose to R that he was buying cement for ABC Infrastructure Ltd.Therefore, the answers areNo, P was not bound to pay Mr. R, as the agent Q exceeded his authority, and the deviation was inseparable from the authorized act.Yes, Mr. R can file a suit against Q, as Q is personally liable for the contract made without disclosing about the ABC Infrastructure Ltd. and exceeding the authority given by the principal.Alternative AnswerIn the light of the given facts in the question, P, the Purchase Manger of the ABC Infrastructure Ltd., authorised Q his agent to buy raw material on his behalf for construction of roads in Delhi. He instructed Q to buy only Mazboot brand of cement @ ` 2000-2,500 per ton. However, Q, violated the instructions of P by buying cement at `3,500 per ton. Furthermore, he did not disclose to R that he was buying cement for ABC Infrastructure Ltd.The stated issue marked in the question is related to the undisclosed principal and exceeding of his authority. Given situation can be dealt with the provisions under section 230, 231 & 233 of the Indian Contract Act.According to the provision stated in section 230, an agent cannot personally enforce contracts entered into by him on behalf of his principal, nor is he personally bound by them. He can neither sue nor be sued on contracts made by him on his principal’s behalf.However, there are exceptions where the agent is presumed to have agreed to be personally bound.Where the agent does not disclose the name of his principal or undisclosed principal (Principal unnamed), then there arises a presumption that he himself undertakes to be personally liable. Also, when the agent exceeds his authority, misleads the third person in believing that the agent has the requisite authority in doing the act. In that case the agent can be made liable personally for the breach of warranty of authority.Further section 231 of the Indian Contract Act specifies rights of third parties to a contract made by undisclosed agent.As per the provision, if an agent makes a contract with a person who neither knows, nor has reason to suspect, that he is an agent, his principal may require the performance of the contract; but the other contracting party has, as against the principal, the same right as he would have had as against the agent if the agent had been the principal.Section 233 gives the option to a third person to sue the Agent or the Principal. In cases where the agent is personally liable, a person dealing with him may hold either him or his principal, or both of them, liable.Therefore, the following are the answers:No, P was not bound to pay Mr. R for purchase of the cement @ ` 3500/- per ton, as the agent Q does not disclose the name of his principal and also exceeded his authority, thus making himself to be personally bound and liable for the doing of said transaction.Yes, in the light of the section 233, Mr. R is given an option to sue the agent or the Principal or both. Yes, R can file a suit against Q, as Q is personally liable for the contract made without disclosing about the ABC Infrastructure Ltd. and exceeding the authority given by the P (principal).(i) According to Section 2(85) of the Companies Act, 2013, Small company means a company, other than a public company—paid-up share capital of which does not exceed four crore rupees or such higher amount as may be prescribed which shall not be more than ten crore rupees; andturnover of which as per profit and loss account for the immediately preceding financial year does not exceed forty crore rupees or such higher amount as may be prescribed which shall not be more than one hundred crore rupees:Exceptions: This clause shall not apply to:a holding company or a subsidiary company;a company registered under section 8; ora company or body corporate governed by any special Act.In the instant case,STS Pvt. Ltd. though is a small company taking into account its turnover and paid up share capital (i.e. ` 10 crores and ` 1 crore respectively), but since it is the subsidiary c.ompany of UV Infratech Pvt. Ltd. (UV Infratech Pvt. Ltd. holds ` 60,00,000 equity share capital of STS Pvt. Ltd.), hence STS Pvt. cannot be considered as small company.ZX Ltd. cannot be considered as a small company since it is a public company.(ii) As per Section 2(6) of the Companies Act, 2013, an Associate Company in relation to another company, means a company in which that other company has a significant influence, but which is not a subsidiary company of the company having such influence and includes a joint venture company.The term “significant influence” means control of at least 20% of total voting power, or control of or participation in business decisions under an agreement.In the given case, the paid up share capital of ACD Ltd. is ` 80 crores. B Ltd. holds equity share capital of ` 15 crore in ACD Ltd. i.e. less than 20% significant influence. Therefore ACD Ltd. cannot be considered as an Associate Company of B Ltd.Alternate conclusionSince the question is asked with reference to B Ltd. who had stake of ` 15 crores in the ACD Ltd. to be considered as an associate company or not.So, the conclusion may be alternatively as follows:In the given case, the paid up share capital of ACD Ltd. is ` 80 crores. B Ltd. holds equity share capital of ` 15 crore in ACD Ltd. i.e. less than 20% significant influence. Therefore, B Ltd. cannot be considered as an Associate Company.(i) Rights of outgoing partner to carry on competing Business (Section 36 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932)An outgoing partner may carry on business competing with that of the firm and he may advertise such business, but subject to contract to the contrary, he may not,-use the firm name,represent himself as carrying on the business of the firm orsolicit the custom of persons who were dealing with the firm before he ceased to be a partner.Agreement in restraint of trade- A partner may make an agreement with his partners that on ceasing to be a partner he will not carry on any business similar to that of the firm within a specified period or within specified local limits and, notwithstanding anything contained in section 27 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, such agreement shall be valid if the restrictions imposed are reasonable.(ii) Right of the partners to be indemnified by the firm [Section 13(e)]: Every partner has the right to be indemnified by the firm in respect of payments made and liabilities incurred by him in the ordinary and proper conduct of the business of the firm as well as in the performance of an act in an emergency for protecting the firm from any loss, if the payments, liability and act are such as a prudent man would make, incur or perform in his own case, under similar circumstances.Liability of partner to indemnify the firm [Section 13(f)]: A partner must indemnify the firm for any loss caused to it by wilful neglect in the conduct of the business of the firm.Question 2S purchased a dress from a reputed showroom and made the payment in cash. The dress she purchased require some alteration. The shopkeeper assured S that it would take just one day to get the dress altered. It was agreed that once the dress was altered the shopkeeper would inform S through phone and she would collect the dress. Next day, by evening the dress was altered and kept ready to be delivered to S. The shopkeeper however forgot to inform S that the dress was ready.In the meantime, a short circuit occurred near the delivery counter of the shop and some packets ready for delivery caught fire. After waiting for 10 days, when, S went to collect her dress she was informed that she came late and her dress was burnt in fire. S, then asked for refund of money what she paid. The shopkeeper refused, by saying that the dress was kept ready the very next day of purchase and the loss due to fire occurred after a week. He refused to bear the liability by saying that if S had collected the dress on time, it would not have been burnt. S insisted that she was waiting for a call from the shop and thus, entitled to claim the refund of cost of dress.Examine, with reference to the provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930, whether shopkeeper will be liable to refund the cost of dress to S?  (7 Marks)Doctrine of indoor management allows all those who deal with the company to assume that the officers of the company have observed the provisions of the articles. In light of the above statement, explain the doctrine of indoor management and its exceptions, if any, according to provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.	(7 Marks)(i)  Limited Liability Partnership (LLP) gives the benefits of Limited Liability of a company on one hand and the flexibility of Partnership on the other. Discuss according to provisions of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008.	(3 Marks)(ii) Raju and his friend Anil have approached you to help them to form a LLP. The object of the proposed LLP is to run a charitable school which provides free education to the poor children. What would be your suggestion in accordance of provisions of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008?	(3 Marks)AnswerSpecific goods to be put into a deliverable state (Section 21 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930): Where there is a contract for the sale of specific goods and the seller is bound to do something to the goods for the purpose of putting them into a deliverable state, the property does not pass until such thing is done and the buyer has notice thereof.According to section 26, “unless otherwise agreed, the goods remain at the seller’s risk until the property therein is transferred to the buyer, but when the property therein is transferred to the buyer, the goods are at the buyer’s risk whether delivery has been made or not”.However, Section 26 also lays down an exception to the rule that ‘risk follows ownership.’ It provides that where delivery of the goods has been delayed through the fault of either buyer or seller, the goods are at the risk of the party in fault as regards any loss which might not have occurred but for such fault.In the instant case, S had paid in full and purchased a specific dress but the dress required alteration, and it was agreed that the shopkeeper would inform S after alteration for collection. The ownership had already passed to S when she paid for the dress, subject to alteration. The delivery was conditional upon the shopkeeper informing S after alteration.Even though the ownership may have passed to S, the seller (shopkeeper) failed to complete the delivery by not informing S. Under Section 26, when delivery is delayed due to the fault of the seller, the loss falls upon the party at fault.Therefore, the shopkeeper is liable to refund the cost of the dress to S.Alternative AnswerThe given problem is based on the concept “Agreement to Sell” under section 4 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930. The term is defined in Section 4(3) of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930, as – “where the transfer of the property in the goods is to take place at a future time or subject to some condition thereafter to be fulfilled, it is called an agreement to sell.” Thus, whether a contract of sale of goods is an absolute sale or an agreement to sell, depends on the fact whether it contemplates immediate transfer from the seller to the buyer or the transfer is to take place at a future date. Hence, in an agreement to sell, the ownership of the goods is not transferred immediately. It is intending to transfer at a future date upon the completion of certain conditions thereon.In the instant case, though S had paid and purchased a specific dress, but the dress required alteration. Shopkeeper assured S that it would take just one day to get the dress altered and it was agreed that he would inform S after alteration for collection. This reflects that transfer or property in goods is to be transferred subject to fulfilment of the condition i.e., after the alteration.Further, Reservation of right of disposal given under Section 25, is applicable here. This section preserves the right of disposal of goods to secure that the price is paid before the property in goods passes to the buyer. Where there is contract of sale of specific goods or where the goods have been subsequently appropriated to the contract, the seller may, by the terms of the contract or appropriation, as the case may be, reserve the right to dispose of the goods, until certain conditions have been fulfilled. In such a case in spite of the fact that the goods have already been delivered to the buyer, the property therein will not pass to the buyer till the condition imposed, if any, by the seller has been fulfilled.Therefore, still the ownership lies with the seller on account of non- fulfilment of condition as to informing to the S that the dress is altered and is ready.Further the plea taken by Shopkeeper that 10 days were passed after the alteration done and he is not liable for damage caused, is not justifiable on account of not being a reasonable circumstance and a ground.Hence, in the light of the given facts, the shopkeeper is liable to refund the cost of the dress to S.Doctrine of Indoor Management: According to the “doctrine of indoor management” the outsiders, dealing with the company though are supposed to have satisfied themselves regarding the competence of the company to enter into the proposed contracts are also entitled to assume that as far as the internal compliance to procedures and regulations by the company is concerned, everything has been done properly.They are bound to examine the registered documents of the company and ensure that the proposed dealing is not inconsistent therewith, but they are not bound to do more. They are fully entitled to presume regularity and compliance by the company with the internal procedures as required by the Memorandum and the Articles. Thus, the doctrine of indoor management aims to protect outsiders against the company.The above-mentioned doctrine of Indoor Management has limitations/exceptions of its own. That is to say, it is inapplicable to the following cases, namely:Actual or constructive knowledge of irregularity: The rule does not protect any person when the person dealing with the company has notice, whether actual or constructive, of the irregularity.Suspicion of Irregularity: The doctrine in no way, rewards those who behave negligently. Where the person dealing with the company is put upon an inquiry, for example, where the transaction is unusual or not in the ordinary course of business, it is the duty of the outsider to make the necessary enquiry.Forgery: The doctrine of indoor management applies only to irregularities which might otherwise affect a transaction, but it cannot apply to forgery which must be regarded as nullity.(i) LLP gives the benefits of limited liability of a company on one hand and the flexibility of a partnership on the other:Limited Liability: Every partner of a LLP is, for the purpose of the business of LLP, the agent of the LLP, but not of other partners. The liability of the partners will be limited to their agreed contribution in the LLP, while the LLP itself will be liable for the full extent of its assets.Flexibility of a partnership: The LLP allows its members the flexibility of organizing their internal structure as a partnership based on a mutually arrived agreement. The LLP form enables entrepreneurs, professionals and enterprises providing services of any kind or engaged in scientific and technical disciplines, to form commercially efficient vehicles suited to their requirements. Owing to flexibility in its structure and operation, the LLP is a suitable vehicle for small enterprises and for investment by venture capital.(ii) The essential requirement for forming LLP is carrying on a lawful business with a view to earn profit. Thus, LLP cannot be formed for charitable or non-economic purpose.In the instant case, Raju and Anil cannot form LLP to run a charitable school which provides free education to the poor children.In view of above it is suggested to them that they can form a section 8 company for this purpose.Question 3ABC & Co. is a renowned partnership firm doing business in textile industry from last twenty years. But due to technical up-gradation, firm incurred heavy debts of ` 50 lakhs. To maintain the integrity of the firm they introduced Mr. D, as a new partner. Before admission of D, other partners A, B, and C decided on their own and made an agreement with the creditors that the new partner will be liable for existing debt through novation. When D joins, he came to know about the debt of ` 50 lakhs. With reference to the provisions of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, give your opinion:Whether D would be liable for the debts of the firm incurred prior to his admission by virtue of the agreement between A, B, C and the creditors?Whether your answer will be different if D was minor at the time of admission?Whether D would be liable to pay the debt upon becoming major?(7 Marks)(i) The Object clause of Memorandum of Association of ABC Pvt. Ltd. authorized the company to carry on the business of trading in property in Gurgaon. Since the company was not doing well, the Directors of the company in a recent board meeting planned to diversify the business and enter into Construction business. For this purpose, they borrowed a sum of` 5 crores from Magnum Finance Ltd. But the members of the company did not approve the decision of the board hence, company refused to repay the loan. According to provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 what is the recourse available to Magnum Finance Ltd. for recovery of the loan?(4 Marks)(ii) SNM Ltd. was registered in 2021 with a share capital of ` 50 Lakh divided into 5 lakhs equity share of ` 10 each under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013 for promotion of art in Jaipur. Company earned huge profits during the financial year ending on 31st March 2025 due to boom in the market. On 10th May 2025, 75% members of the company demanded to distribute 10% dividend to the equity shareholders. For this purpose, they passed special resolution in EGM.With reference to provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 decide whether SNM Ltd. can declare dividend @ 10% to equity shareholders for the year ending 31st March 2025.	(3 Marks)According to provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, define the following terms with reference to contract of guarantee:Nature and extent of Surety's LiabilityDischarge of a Contract of Surety by Invalidation of the Contract of Guarantee.	(6 Marks)Answer(i) Liability of D: As per section 31 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, the liabilities of the new partner ordinarily commence from the date when he is admitted as a partner, unless he agrees to be liable for obligations incurred by the firm prior to the date. The new firm, including the new partner who joins it, may agree to assume liability for the existing debts of the old firm, and creditors may agree to accept the new firm as their debtor and discharge the old partners. The creditor’s consent is necessary in every case to make the transaction operative. The mere agreement amongst partners cannot operate as Novation. Thus, an agreement between the partners and the incoming partner that he shall be liable for existing debts will not ipso facto give creditors of the firm any right against him.In the instant case, D would not be liable for the debts of the firm incurred prior to his admission by virtue of the agreement between A, B, C and the creditors.If D was minor at the time of admission: As per section 30, the liability of the minor is confined only to the extent of his share in the profits and the property of the firm.Minor has no personal liability for the debts of the firm incurred during his minority.Moreover, a mere agreement amongst partners cannot operate as Novation. Thus, an agreement between the partners and the incoming partner that he shall be liable for existing debts will not ipso facto give creditors of the firm any right against him.Hence, D would not be liable in this case also.Liability of D upon becoming major: A minor partner on attaining majority becomes personally liable to third parties for all acts of the firm done since he was admitted to the benefits of partnership.Moreover, a mere agreement amongst partners cannot operate as Novation. Thus, an agreement between the partners and the incoming partner that he shall be liable for existing debts will not ipso facto give creditors of the firm any right against him.Hence, D would not be liable to pay the existing debt upon becoming major.(i) It is a fundamental rule of Company Law that the objects of a company as stated in its memorandum can be departed from only to the extent permitted by the Act, thus far and no further. In consequence, any act done or a contract made by the company which travels beyond the powers not only of the directors but also of the company is wholly void and inoperative in law and is therefore not binding on the company.On this account, a company can be restrained from employing its fund for purposes other than those sanctioned by the memorandum. Likewise, it can be restrained from carrying on a trade different from the one it is authorised to carry on.The impact of the doctrine of ultra vires is that a company can neither be sued on an ultra vires transaction, nor can it sue on it.Since the memorandum is a “public document”, it is open to public inspection. Therefore, when one deals with a company one is deemed to know about the powers of the company. If in spite of this you enter into a transaction which is ultra vires the company, you cannot enforce it against the company.In the instant case, ABC Pvt. Ltd. was authorised to trade in property only, so taking loan for construction business was ultra virus the power of the company.Therefore, Magnum Finance Ltd. cannot enforce against ABC Pvt. Ltd. for recovery of the loan. But,It can recover the money to the extent it has been utilised in meeting lawful debt of the company, then it steps into shoes of the debtor paid off and consequently it would be entitled to recover the loan to that extent from the company.if the money is not spent, it may stop ABC Pvt. Ltd. from spending by means of injunction and recover the unspent amount.Formation of companies with charitable objects etc. (Section 8 company): Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013 deals with the formation of companies which are formed topromote the charitable objects of commerce, art, science, sports, education, research, social welfare, religion, charity, protection of environment etc.Such company intends to apply its profit in promoting its objects andprohibiting the payment of any dividend to its members.In the instant case, SNM Ltd. cannot declare dividend @10% to equity shareholders for the year ending 31st March, 2025 as it is a Section 8 company which are specifically prohibited from paying dividend. The profits of a section 8 company must be applied towards promoting its objects. Therefore, the special resolution passed in the EGM to declare a dividend is invalid.(i) Nature and extent of Surety’s Liability [Section 128 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872]The liability of the surety is co-extensive with that of the principal debtor unless it is otherwise provided by the contract.Liability of surety is of secondary nature as he is liable only on default of principal debtor.Where a debtor cannot be held liable on account of any defect in the document, the liability of the surety also ceases.(D) A creditor may choose to proceed against a surety first, unless there is an agreement to the contrary.Discharge of a contract of Surety by the invalidation of the contract of guarantee.Guarantee obtained by misrepresentation [Section 142]: Any guarantee which has been obtained by means of misrepresentation made by the creditor, or with his knowledge and assent, concerning a material part of the transaction, is invalid.Guarantee obtained by concealment [Section 143]: Any guarantee which the creditor has obtained by means of keeping silence as to material circumstances is invalid.Guarantee on contract that creditor shall not act on it until co-surety joins (Section 144): Where a person gives a guarantee upon a contract that the creditor shall not act upon it until another person has joined in it as co-surety, the guarantee is not valid if that other person does not join.Question 4X was running a business of Car on lease. One fine day, Y came to hire a car for 10 days for his business tour from Delhi to Amritsar. X offered him a Honda city for ` 50,000/- for 10 days on a condition that petrol and toll expenses will be borne by him. During the journey, engine of car was choked. Y has to spend ` 10,000/- for repair of engine. When he was coming back from Amritsar, brakes of car were not working and a major accident of Y happened due to this. Y was admitted to hospital and paid a bill of ` 50,000 on recovery. Y asked X to compensate him charges for car repair and hospital expenses amounting ` 60,000/-. X denied for compensation by saying that he was not aware about the engine and brakes fault. Y filed a suit against X for recovery of damages. Give your opinion with reference to provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872:Whether Y can withheld the amount of hire charges ` 50,000/- on account of non-payment of damages?Whether Mr. X was liable to pay Damage as he was not aware of the fact of faults in car?	(7 Marks)(i) "Delivery of an instrument is essential whether instrument is payable to bearer or order for effecting the negotiation." Discuss this statement with reference to provisions of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881. (3 Marks)(ii)  Differentiate between a promissory note and bill of exchange.(4 Marks)Explain in brief the important functions played by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs and the Ministry of Law and Justice in enforcing the law in India.	(6 Marks)AnswerBailment: As per Section 148 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, bailment is the delivery of goods by one person to another for some purpose, upon a contract, that the goods shall, when the purpose is accomplished, be returned or otherwise disposed of according to the directions of the person delivering them.Bailor’s duty to disclose faults in goods bailed in case of non- gratuitous bailment (Section 150): If the goods are bailed for hire, the bailor is responsible for such damage, whether he was or was not aware of the existence of such faults in the goods bailed.Duty to pay necessary expenses in case of non-gratuitous bailment [Section 158]: The bailor is liable to pay the extraordinary expenses incurred by the bailee.Bailor’s responsibility to indemnify losses [Section 164]: It is the duty of bailor to indemnify all the losses and expenses, which bailee has to pay on account of defective goods.In the instant case, Y took a car on lease from X for 10 days for ` 50,000. During the journey, Y has to spend ` 10,000 for repair of engine and paid` 50,000 for hospital expenses due to accident because of fault in brakes of car. These are the extraordinary expenses and losses and it is the bailor’s duty to bear such expenses and losses.Therefore, the answers are:Y can withhold the hire charges of ` 50,000 on account of non- payment of damages and claim an additional `10,000, from X.X is liable for the full ` 60,000 (`10,000 repair + ` 50,000 hospital) as it is the bailor’s duty to supply a car fit for the purpose for which it was hired.(i)  As per Section 46 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, delivery of an instrument is essential whether the instrument is payable to bearer or order for effecting the negotiation. The delivery must be voluntary, and the object of delivery should be to pass the property in the instrument to the person to whom it is delivered. The delivery can be, actual or constructive. Actual delivery takes place when the instrument changes hand physically. Constructive delivery takes place when the instrument is delivered to the agent, clerk or servant of the indorsee on his behalf or when the indorser, after indorsement, holds the instrument as an agent of the indorsee.Section 46 also lays down that when an instrument is conditionally or for a special purpose only, the property in it does not pass to the transferee, even though it is indorsed to him, unless the instrument is negotiated to a holder in due course.(ii) Difference between promissory note and bill of exchangeS.No.BasisPromissory NoteBill of Exchange1.Definition"A Promissory Note" is an instrument in writing containing an unconditional undertaking signed by the maker, to pay a certain sum of money only to, or to the order of, a certain person, or to the bearer of the instrument.“A bill of exchange” is an instrument in writing containing an unconditional order, signed by the maker, directing a certain person to pay a certain sum of money only to, or to the order of a certain person or to the bearer of the instrument.2.Nature	of InstrumentIn a promissory note, there is a promise to pay money.In a bill of exchange, there is an order for making payment.3.PartiesIn a promissory note, there are only 2 parties namely:the maker andthe payeeIn a bill of exchange, there are 3 parties which are as under:the drawerthe draweethe payee4.AcceptanceA promissory note does not require any acceptance, as it is signed by the person who is liable to pay.A bills of exchange needs acceptance from the drawee.5.Payable	to bearerA promissory note cannot be made payable to bearer.On the other hand, a bill of exchange can be drawn payable to bearer. However, it cannot be payable to bearer on demand.The Ministry of FinanceThe Ministry of Finance (Vitta Mantralaya) is a Ministry within the Government of India concerned with the economy of India, serving as the Treasury of India.In particular, it concerns itself with taxation, financial legislation, financial institutions, capital markets, centre and state finances, and the Union Budget.One of the important functions of the Finance Ministry is the presentation of the Union Budget. This annual event is eagerly awaited by professionals and the common man as it provides for the rates of taxes and budget allocations for the ensuing year.The Ministry of Corporate AffairsThe Ministry of Corporate Affairs is an Indian Government Ministry.It is primarily concerned with administration of the Companies Act 2013, the Companies Act 1956, the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008, and the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016.It is responsible mainly for the regulation of Indian enterprises in the industrial and services sector.The Ministry of Law and JusticeThe Ministry of Law and Justice in the Government of India is a Cabinet MinistryIt deals with themanagement of the legal affairs, through the Department of Legal Affairslegislative activities through the Legislative Departmentadministration of justice in India through the Department of JusticeThe Department of Legal Affairs is concerned with advising the various Ministries of the Central Government while the Legislative Department is concerned with drafting of principal legislation for the Central Government.Question 5(i) P sold certain antique items to Q for ` 3,00,000/- on 13.12.2024. As per the terms of agreement 75% of the amount was to be paid within a week and the balance 25% was to be paid till 31.12.2024. Q appointed his agent R to take delivery of the goods after payment of first installment. Q transferred a sum of ` 2,80,000/- in the account of P through NEFT on 18.12.2024 which was credited in P's account on the same date. R failed to take delivery of antique items due to medical emergency.By the meantime, Q failed to make payment of the second installment till 31.12.2024. On 10.01.2025, Q's agent came to take the delivery of goods. But, P refused to deliver the goods and exercised his right of lien over the goods.According to provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930, give your opinion whether P was justified in exercising right of lien as only` 20,000/- was left to be paid?	(4 Marks)(ii) An auction takes place in Delhi for antique items. It is notified to the bidders that the sale will be completed, only when the hammer of the auctioneer hits the table and he announces "you are the highestbidder". During the auction, L bids for an antique sculpture, worth ` 8 lakhs. The hammer falls, but announcement cannot be made as the auction suddenly stops before the auctioneer can utter any words. It is notified to everyone that there has been an unexpected rise in the market price for that particular sculpture, and therefore, it will not be sold on that particular day. L contends that the auctioneer is bound to sell the sculpture to him at the price he bid because once he bid at the highest price in the auction and the hammer fell, the auction sale was completed and therefore, the auctioneer is under a contractual obligation to sell the sculpture. The auctioneer disagrees. Discuss the validity of L's claim in reference to the provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930.	(3 Marks)"The partner indeed virtually embraces the character of both a principal and an agent. The implied authority of a partner to bind the firm by all acts done by him in all matters connected with business is done in the usual way, not beyond the nature and scope of Partnership." Explain with reference to provisions of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932.	(7 Marks)(i)  Give your opinion with reference to provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872:Whether Joint promisor and promisee voluntary discharge their obligation even after death?In case they won't be able to discharge their obligation, whether any of the joint promisor may be compelled?What would be the situation in case of default by any one of them?(4 Marks)(ii) What are the effects of Coercion? "Whether threat to commit suicide is coercion"? Elaborate with reference to provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872.	(2 Marks)Answer(i)	Rights of lien (Section 47 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930)An unpaid seller has a right of lien on the goods for the price while he is in possession, until the payment or tender of the price of such goods. It is the right to retain the possession of the goods and refusalto deliver them to the buyer until the price due in respect of them is paid or tendered.Exercise of right of lien: This right can be exercised by him in the following cases only:where goods have been sold without any stipulation of credit; (i.e., on cash sale)where goods have been sold on credit but the term of credit has expired; orwhere the buyer becomes insolvent.In the instant case, P is still in possession of the goods and the full price was not paid by Q within the stipulated time i.e. till 31st December 2024. Therefore, P is an unpaid seller and can rightfully exercise lien under Section 47.Even though the unpaid amount is only ` 20,000, P’s refusal to deliver the goods is valid. Thus, P is legally justified in exercising right of lien.(ii) Legal Rules of Auction sale: Section 64 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 provides following rules to regulate the sale by auction:Completion of the contract of sale: The sale is complete when the auctioneer announces its completion by the fall of hammer or in any other customary manner. Until such announcement is made, any bidder may retract from his bid.In the instant case, the sale of sculpture to L is not complete as only hammer falls but the auctioneer did not announce “you are the highest bidder”.Therefore, L’s claim contending that the auctioneer is bound to sell the sculpture to him at the price he bid is not valid as the auction sale was not complete.The partner indeed virtually embraces the character of both a principal and an agent.As per Section 18 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, a partner is the agent of the firm for the purpose of the business of the firm. So as far as he acts for himself and in his own interest in the common concern of thepartnership, he may properly be deemed a principal and so far as he acts for his partners, he may properly be deemed as an agent.The principal distinction between him and a mere agent is that he has a community of interest with other partners in the whole property and business and liabilities of partnership, whereas an agent as such has no interest in either.The implied authority of a partner to bind the firm by all acts done by him in all matters connected with business is done in the usual way, not beyond the nature and scope of partnership.Sections 19(1) and 22 deal with the implied authority of a partner. The impact of these Sections is that the act of a partner which is done to carry on, in the usual way, business of the kind carried on by the firm binds the firm, provided that the act is done in the firm name, or any manner expressing or implying an intention to bind the firm. Such an authority of a partner to bind the firm is called his implied authority. It is however subject to the following restrictions:The act done must relate to the usual business of the firm, that is, the act done by the partner must be within the scope of his authority and related to the normal business of the firm.The act is such as is done for normal conduct of business of the firm. The usual way of carrying on the business will depend on the nature and circumstances of each particular case.The act to be done in the name of the firm or in any other manner expressing or implying an intention to bind the firm.Thus, a partner has implied authority to bind the firm by all acts done by him in all matters connected with the partnership business and which are done in the usual way and are not in their nature beyond the scope of partnership.(i)  1.  According to section 42 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, if two or more persons have made a joint promise, ordinarily all of them during their life-time must jointly fulfil the promise. After death of any one of them, his legal representative jointly with the survivor or survivors should do so. After the death of the lastsurvivor the legal representatives of all the original co-promisors must fulfil the promise.Hence, the legal representative can jointly discharge the obligations of joint promisor and promisee, after their death.As per section 43, each of two or more joint promisors may compel every other joint promisor to contribute equally with himself to the performance of the promise, unless a contrary intention appears from the contract.Hence, the joint promisor may be compelled.If any one of two or more joint promisors makes default in such contribution, the remaining joint promisors must bear the loss arising from such default in equal shares.Effects of coercion under section 19 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872Contract induced by coercion is voidable at the option of the party whose consent was so obtained.A person to whom money has been paid or anything delivered under coercion must repay or return it.Threat to commit suicide – Whether it is coercion?Suicide though forbidden by Indian Penal Code is not punishable, as a dead man cannot be punished. But Section 15 declares that committing or threatening to commit any act forbidden by Indian Penal Code is coercion. Hence, a threat to commit suicide will be regarded as coercion.Question 6Ram purchased a second-hand car from his friend Rohan for ` 5 lakhs on 10th November, 2022. He paid ` 4 lakh immediately and promised to pay` 1 lakh within a year. But, he could not pay the remaining amount till December-2023. On 5thJanuary, 2024 Ram received an invitation for Rohan's wedding which he could not attend but sent a cheque of ` 51,000 as gift by post.When Rohan deposited the cheque, it was returned unpaid due to insufficient balance in the account of Ram. Rohan considered it as an offence under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881.AdviseWhether Ram would be held liable for dishonour of cheque?Whether Rohan was justified in considering this as an offence under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881.	(7 Marks)With reference to provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 define the following terms:Quasi-contracts and its salient featuresResponsibility of finder of goods	(6 Marks)ORExplain the following terms with reference to the Indian Contract Act, 1872:Pledge by mercantile agentPledge by person in possession under voidable contract    (6 Marks)With reference to provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930, answer the following:What do you mean by Reservation of right of disposal? State the circumstances under which right of disposal may be reserved.Sometime breach of condition will be treated as breach of warranty as a result of which buyer losses his right to rescind. State the circumstance where a contract cannot be avoided even on account of breach of condition.	(7 Marks)AnswerAccording to section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, where any cheque drawn by a person on an account maintained by him with a banker—for payment of any amount of moneyto another person from that accountfor the discharge, in whole or in part, of any debt or other liability, [A cheque given as gift or donation, or as a security or in discharge of amere moral obligation, or for an illegal consideration, would be outside the purview of this section]is returned by the bank unpaid,either because of the—amount of money standing to the credit of that account is insufficient to honor the cheque, orthat it exceeds the amount arranged to be paid from that account by an agreement made with that bank,such person shall be deemed to have committed an offence and shall, be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine which may extend to twice the amount of the cheque, or with both.Explanation: For the purpose of this section, “debt or other liability” means a legally enforceable debt or other liability.In the given question, Rohan received a cheque from Ram, for` 51,000 as a gift for his marriage. In terms of section 138, cheque given as a gift does not fall within this section. Hence, Ram would not be held liable for dishonour of cheque.The explanation to the section provides that for the purpose of section 138 only a legally enforceable debt or other liability is to be taken into consideration. The cheque of ` 51,000 was issued in the nature of a gift and not as a part of the payment for the balance amount of car. Hence, Rohan was not justified in considering the dishonour of cheque, an offence under section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881.(i) Quasi- Contracts: A quasi-contract is not an actual contract, but it resembles a contract. It is created by law under certain circumstances. The law creates and enforces legal rights and obligations when no real contract exists. Such obligations are known as quasi-contracts. In other words, it is a contract in which there is no intention on part of either party to make a contract but law imposes a contract upon the parties.Salient features of quasi contracts:In the first place, such a right is always a right to money and generally, though not always, to a liquidated sum of money.Secondly, it does not arise from any agreement of the parties concerned, but is imposed by the law; andThirdly, it is a right which is available not against all the world, but against a particular person or persons only, so that in this respect it resembles a contractual right.Responsibility of finder of goodsAs per section 71 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, ‘A person who finds goods belonging to another and takes them into his custody is subject to same responsibility as if he were a bailee’.Thus, a finder of lost goods has:to take proper care of the property as man of ordinary prudence would takeno right to appropriate the goods andto restore the goods if the owner is found.OR(i) Pledge by mercantile agent: According to section 178 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, a mercantile agent, who is in the possession of goods or document of title, with the consent of owner, can pledge them while acting in the ordinary course of business as a Mercantile Agent.Such Pledge shall be valid as if were made with the authority of the owner of goods. Provided, Pawnee acted in good faith and had no notice that Pawnor has no authority to pledge.(ii) Pledge by person in possession under voidable contractAccording to section 178A of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, When the pawnor has obtained possession of the goods pledged by him under a contract voidable under section 19 or section 19A (contracts where consent has been obtained by fraud, coercion, misrepresentation, undue influence), but the contract has not been rescinded at the timeof the pledge, the pawnee acquires a good title to the goods, provided he acts in good faith and without notice of the pawnor’s defect of title.(i) Reservation of right of disposal: Section 25 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930, preserves the right of disposal of goods to secure that the price is paid before the property in goods passes to the buyer.Where there is contract of sale of specific goods or where the goods have been subsequently appropriated to the contract, the seller may, by the terms of the contract or appropriation, as the case may be, reserve the right to dispose of the goods, until certain conditions have been fulfilled. In such a case in spite of the fact that the goods have already been delivered to the buyer or to a carrier or other bailee for the purpose of transmitting the same to the buyer, the property therein will not pass to the buyer till the condition imposed, if any, by the seller has been fulfilled.Circumstances under which the right to disposal may be reserved: In the following circumstances, seller is presumed to have reserved the right of disposal:If the goods are shipped or delivered to a railway administration for carriage and by the bill of lading or railway receipt, as the case may be, the goods are deliverable to the order of the seller or his agent, then the seller will be prima facie deemed to have reserved to the right of disposal.Where the seller draws a bill on the buyer for the price and sends to him the bill of exchange together with the bill of lading or (as the case may be) the railway receipt to secure acceptance or payment thereof, the buyer must return the bill of lading, if he does not accept or pay the bill.And if he wrongfully retains the bill of lading or the railway receipt, the property in the goods does not pass to him.Section 13 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930, specifies cases where a breach of condition be treated as a breach of warranty. As a result of which the buyer loses his right to rescind the contract and can claim damages only.In the following cases, a contract is not avoided even on account of a breach of a condition:Where the buyer altogether waives the performance of the condition. A party may for his own benefit, waive a stipulation. It should be a voluntary waiver by buyer.Where the buyer elects to treat the breach of the conditions, as one of a warranty. That is to say, he may claim only damages instead of repudiating the contract. Here, the buyer has not waived the condition but decided to treat it as a warranty.Where the contract is non-severable and the buyer has accepted either the whole goods or any part thereof.Where the fulfilment of any condition or warranty is excused by law by reason of impossibility or otherwise.PAPER – 2: BUSINESS LAWSQuestion No. 1 is compulsory.Attempt any four questions from the remaining five questions.Working Notes should form part of the answer.Question 1Examine the validity of the following agreements under the provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 and justify your answer:Mrs. Priya pays a sum of ` 10,000 to a marriage bureau to provide information about the prospective grooms for her daughter's marriage.Bharat agrees with John to sell his white bull. Unknown to both the parties, the bull was dead at the time of agreement.Rishabh sells the goodwill of his shop to Omkar for ` 10,00,000 and promises not to carry on such similar business within the local limits so long as Omkar carries on like business.A property worth ` 2,00,000 was agreed to be sold for just ` 25,000 by a person of unsound mind.	(7 Marks)(i) "Harmony Foundation" is a newly incorporated company focused on promoting education and healthcare services in rural areas. The company is registered as a section 8 company with a clear plan to reinvest all profits into its activities, and a license has been accorded by the Central Government. For the financial year ending on 31st March, 2024, the company earned a substantial profit and transferred some amount to M/s LMP Associates (a Partnership firm and one of the member of the Harmony Foundation). Subsequently, on the complaint of one of the members, the Central Government, after giving an opportunity of being heard, directed the company to be wound up on the ground that a partnership firm cannot be a member of the section 8 company and it cannot transfer any part of profit to the firm. Explain, in the light of the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, whether the ground taken for winding up is sufficient.	(4 Marks)(ii) Justice Private Limited has 9 directors on its Board of Directors. The company's Articles of Association currently state that the quorum for board meetings shall be 1/3rd of the total strength or 2 directors, whichever is higher. The company now intends to amend this article to specify that the quorum for board meetings shall be 1/3rd of the total strength or 4 directors, whichever is higher. Advise the company on the procedure for including this entrenchment provision in its Articles, in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. Would your advice differ if the company were a public company?	(3 Marks)A minor admitted to the benefits of a partnership firm is entitled to certain rights and may also have liabilities to third parties for the acts of the firm. Discuss the rights and liabilities (before attaining majority only) of the minor under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932.	(6 Marks)Answer(i)	Under Section 10 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, a valid contract requires free consent, lawful consideration, and a lawful object.In the instant case, the agreement to pay ` 10,000 in exchange for a service (providing information about prospective grooms) is lawful.Hence, the agreement is valid.According to section 20, where both the parties to an agreement are under a mistake as to a matter of fact essential to the agreement, there is a bilateral mistake. In such a case, the agreement is void.In the instant case, the bull's death (unknown to both parties) constitutes a bilateral mistake regarding the subject matter of the contract.Hence, the agreement is void.Under Section 27, agreements in restraint of trade are void. However, an exception is provided for contracts involving the sale of goodwill. The local limits within which the seller of the goodwill agrees not to carry on similar business must be reasonable.In the instant case, the restriction is limited to the local area and does not extend indefinitely.Hence, the agreement is valid.According to section 12, a contract by a person who is not of sound mind is void.In the instant case, a property worth ` 2,00,000 was agreed to be sold for just ` 25,000 by a person of unsound mind.Hence, the agreement is void.(i) Formation of companies with charitable objects etc. (Section 8 company):Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013 deals with the formation of companies which are formed topromote the charitable objects of commerce, art, science, sports, education, research, social welfare, religion, charity, protection of environment etc.Such company intends to apply its profit inpromoting its objects andprohibiting the payment of any dividend to its members.The Section 8 company operates under a special licence from Central Government and the Licence revoked if conditions contravened.On revocation, Central Government may direct it toConverts its status and change its nameWind–upAmalgamate with another company having similar object.A partnership firm can be a member of Section 8 company.In the instant case, “Harmony Foundation” a section 8 company transferred some amount to M/S LMP Associates (a Partnership firm and one of the members of the Harmony Foundation).The Central Government, after giving an opportunity of being heard, directed the company to be wound up on the ground that a partnership firm cannot be a member of the Section 8 company and it cannot transfer any part of profit to the firm.Hence, the ground for winding up taken on the basis of transfer of any part of profit by Harmony Foundation to the M/S LMP Associates is correct and sufficient.However, M/S LMP Associates can become a member of Section 8 company. Therefore, this ground is not correct hence not sufficient.(ii) Section 5(4) and (5) of the Companies Act, 2013 contains the following provisions:Manner of inclusion of the entrenchment provision: The provisions for entrenchment shall only be made either on formation of a company, or by an amendment in the articles agreed to by all the members of the company in the case of a private company and by a special resolution in the case of a public company.Notice to the registrar of the entrenchment provision: Where the articles contain provisions for entrenchment, whether made on formation or by amendment, the company shall give notice to the Registrar of such provisions in such form and manner as may be prescribed.In the instant case, Justice Private Limited can follow the above procedure i.e. with the consent of all the members and notice to the registrar to include the entrenchment provision in its Articles.Yes, the advice will differ, if the company is public company, since it has to pass Special Resolution and also inform to the registrar.Though a minor cannot be a partner in a firm, he can nonetheless be admitted to the benefits of partnership under Section 30 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932. The following are the Rights and Liabilities (before attaining majority):Rights:A minor partner has a right to his agreed share of the profits and of the firm.He can have access to, inspect and copy the accounts of the firm.He can sue the partners for accounts or for payment of his share but only when severing his connection with the firm, and not otherwise.On attaining majority, he may within 6 months elect to become a partner or not to become a partner. If he elects to become a partner, then he is entitled to the share to which he was entitled as a minor. If he does not, then his share is not liable for any acts of the firm after the date of the public notice served to that effect.Liabilities:Before attaining majority:The liability of the minor is confined only to the extent of his share in the profits and the property of the firm.Minor has no personal liability for the debts of the firm incurred during his minority.Minor cannot be declared insolvent, but if the firm is declared insolvent his share in the firm vests in the Official Receiver/Assignee (which means minor can recover his share in the firm on proportionate basis from official receiver/assignee).Question 2(i) MNO Limited, a supplier of electronic components, entered into a contract on August 1, 2023, with PQR Enterprises for the sale of 1000 units of microchips. The contract specifically identified the microchips by serial numbers and confirmed that they were in a deliverable state, stored in MNO Limited's warehouse. The contract stipulated that the goods would be delivered on September 1, 2023.On August 10, 2023, a flood occurred, damaged the warehouse and destroyed the entire stock of microchips, including the 1000 units intended for PQR Enterprises. Examine, with reference to the provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 who shall suffer the loss? What will be your answer if the microchips are not specifically identified and marked for PQR Enterprises at the time of the contract?	(4 Marks)(ii) A purchases a motorcycle from B and uses it for some time. It turns out that the motorcycle sold by B to A was a stolen one and had to be returned to a rightful owner. A brings action against B for the return of the price. Will he succeed? Examine this with reference to the provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930.	(3 Marks)Write in brief the content and model of the Articles of Association (AOA), according to which the director and other officers are required to perform their functions as regards the management of the company, its accounts and audit.	(7 Marks)Dyana and Bharti, newly qualified chartered accountants, wish to form a Limited Liability Partnership (LLP) to provide their professional services. They seek information about the provisions of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008, specifically regarding the incorporation document. Additionally, they want to know whether the statement filed along with the incorporation document serves as sufficient evidence that all legal requirements for the incorporation of the LLP have been fulfilled. Explain these aspects to them.(6 Marks)Answer(i) According to Section 18 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930, where there is a contract of sale for unascertained goods, the property in goods cannot pass to the buyer unless and until the goods are ascertained. The buyer can get the ownership right on the goods only when the goods are specific and ascertained.According to section 20 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930, where there is an unconditional contract for sale of specific goods in deliverable state, the property in the goods passes to the buyer when the contract is made, and it is immaterial whether the time of payment of price or the time of delivery of the goods, or both, is postponed. Here, the condition is goods must be ready for delivery.In the instant case, since the microchips were specifically identified and were in a deliverable state when the contract was formed on August 1, 2023, ownership (and risk) likely passed to PQR Enterprises on August 1, 2023.Therefore, PQR Enterprises will suffer the loss.Goods are not specifically identified and ascertained:If the microchips were not specifically identified and marked for PQR Enterprises at the time of the contract, MNO Limited will suffer the loss, as the risk would not have transferred to PQR Enterprises.(ii)  As per Section 27 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930, “no one can transfer a better title than they themselves have.” This means that a person who is not the owner of goods cannot convey ownership unless authorized by the true owner.Also, Section 14(a) imposes an implied condition in every contract of sale that the seller has the right to sell the goods means he should be the real owner. If the seller’s title turns out to be defective, the buyer must return the goods to the true owner and recover the price from the seller.In the instant case, A will succeed in his action against B for the return of the price, as B had no title to sell the stolen motorcycle, and the sale was in breach of the implied condition.The Articles of Association are in fact the Bye-Laws of the company according to which director and other officers are required to perform their functions as regards the management of the company, its accounts and audit. It is important therefore that the auditor should study them and, while doing so he should note the provisions therein in respect of relevant matters.Section 5 of the Companies Act, 2013 seeks to provide the contents and model of articles of association. The section lays the following law-Contains regulations: The articles of a company shall contain the regulations for management of the company.Inclusion of matters: The articles shall also contain such matters, as are prescribed under the rules. However, a company may also include such additional matters in its articles as may be considered necessary for its management.Contain provisions for entrenchment: The articles may contain provisions for entrenchment (to protect something) to the effect that specified provisions of the articles may be altered only if conditions or procedures as that are more restrictive than those applicable in the case of a special resolution, are met or complied with.Manner of inclusion of the entrenchment provision: The provisions for entrenchment shall only be made either on formation of a company,or by an amendment in the articles agreed to by all the members of the company in the case of a private company and by a special resolution in the case of a public company.Notice to the registrar of the entrenchment provision: Where the articles contain provisions for entrenchment, whether made on formation or by amendment, the company shall give notice to the Registrar of such provisions in such form and manner as may be prescribed.Forms of articles: The articles of a company shall be in respective forms specified in Tables, F, G, H, I and J in Schedule I as may be applicable to such company.Model articles: A company may adopt all or any of the regulations contained in the model articles applicable to such company.Company registered after the commencement of this Act: In case of any company, which is registered after the commencement of this Act, in so far as the registered articles of such company do not exclude or modify the regulations contained in the model articles applicable to such company, those regulations shall, so far as applicable, be the regulations of that company in the same manner and to the extent as if they were contained in the duly registered articles of the company.Incorporation document (Section 11 of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008): The most important document needed for registration is the incorporation document.For a LLP to be incorporated:two or more persons associated for carrying on a lawful business with a view to profit shall subscribe their names to an incorporation document;the incorporation document shall be filed in such manner and with such fees, as may be prescribed with the Registrar of the State in which the registered office of the LLP is to be situated; andStatement to be filed:there shall be filed along with the incorporation document, a statement in the prescribed form,made by either an advocate, or a Company Secretary or a Chartered Accountant or a Cost Accountant, who is engaged in the formation of the LLP andby any one who subscribed his name to the incorporation document,that all the requirements of this Act and the rules made thereunder have been complied with,in respect of incorporation and matters precedent and incidental thereto.The incorporation document shall—be in a form as may be prescribed;state the name of the LLP;state the proposed business of the LLP;state the address of the registered office of the LLP;state the name and address of each of the persons who are to be partners of the LLP on incorporation;state the name and address of the persons who are to be designated partners of the LLP on incorporation;contain such other information concerning the proposed LLP as may be prescribed.If a person makes a statement as discussed above which he—knows to be false; ordoes not believe to be true, shall be punishablewith imprisonment for a term which may extend to 2 years andwith fine which shall not be less than ` 10,000 but which may extend to ` 5 Lakhs.Incorporation by registration (Section 12- Sufficient evidence): As per section 12, the Registrar may accept the statement delivered under clauseof sub-section (1) of section 11 as sufficient evidence that the requirement imposed by clause (a) of the sub-section has been complied with.In view of above, the statement filed along with the incorporation document serves as sufficient evidence that all legal requirements for the incorporation of the LLP have been fulfilled.Question 3P, Q and R, are partners in a construction firm, PQR Associates. P buys cement on behalf of the firm from D. The cement is used in the ordinary course of the firm's business. P uses the cement for his personal purposes. The supplier D, who is unaware of the private use of cement by P, claims the price from the firm. The firm refuses to pay for the price, on the ground that the cement was never received by it. Referring to the provisions of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, answer the followings:Whether the Firm's contention is tenable?What would be your answer if a part of the cement so purchased by P was delivered to the firm by him, and the rest of the cement was used by him for his private use, about which neither the firm nor the supplier were aware?	(7 Marks)(i) The extract of the major shareholders holding paid-up share capital in Rural Development Fin. Corp. Ltd., are as follows:Central Government26%State of Maharashtra18%State of Tamilnadu24% andPublic32%Whether the company would be considered as a Public Financial Institution (PFI) under the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013? Explain in brief about various institutions regarded as 'Public Financial Institutions' under the Companies Act, 2013.	(5 Marks)(ii) Whether it is mandatory to have common seal for the company? If not, then what are the other options available as per the Companies Act, 2013?	(2 Marks)What are the agreements which are held to be opposed to public policy under the Indian Contract Act, 1872. Explain any 6 such agreements.   (6 Marks)AnswerThe given question is based on the Section 18 read with sections 25 & 26 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932. Section 18 deals with the Partner to be an agent of the firm. This means that a partner is the agent of the firm for the purpose of the business of the firm.The partner indeed virtually holds the character of both a principal and an agent. So as far as he acts for himself and in his own interest in the common concern of the partnership, he may properly be deemed a principal and so far as he acts for his partners, he may properly be deemed as an agent.The rule that a partner is the agent of the firm for the purpose of the business of the firm cannot be applied to all transactions and dealings between the partners themselves. It is applicable only to the act done by partners for the purpose of the business of the firm.According to section 25, the partners are jointly and severally responsible to third parties for all acts which come under the scope of their express or implied authority. “Act of firm’ connotes any act or omission by all the partners or by any partner or agent of the firm, which gives rise to a right enforceable by or against the firm.As per section 26, the firm is liable to the same extent as the partner for any loss or injury caused to a third party by the wrongful acts of a partner, if they are done by the partner while acting:in the ordinary course of the business of the firmwith the authority of the partners.According to the facts given in the questions, P, a partner to PQR Associates, buys cement on behalf of the firm from D in the ordinary course of the firm’s business. P uses the cement for his personal purposes. D, the supplier was unaware of the private use of cement by P and claims price from the firm. Firm refuses to pay the price on the ground that the cement was never received by it.Referring to the stated provisions of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, following are the answers:Said Section is applicable only to the act done by partners for the purpose of the business of the firm. In such case, partner act as theagent of the firm for the purpose of the business of the firm. Since in the given case, P, buys cement on behalf of the firm from D in the ordinary course of the firm’s business.Therefore, in the given case, firms’ contention of refusal to pay the price on the ground that the cement was never received by it, is not tenable.Further for commission of the wrongful act by the partner, the firm is liable to the same extent as the partner for any loss or injury caused to a third party by the wrongful acts of a partner, if they are done by the partner while acting:in the ordinary course of the business of the firmwith the authority of the partners.In the given case, part of the cement so purchased by P was delivered to the firm by him and the rest of the cement was used by him for his private use, was not known to the firm and the supplier. Since the act of the P to purchase the cement was in the ordinary course of business with the authority of the partner, however wrongful use by the partner will make the firm liable to the same extent as the partner for loss or injury caused to D.However, PQR Associates can take action against P, the partner.(i) Conditions for an institution to be notified as PFI (Section 2(72) of the Companies Act, 2013: No institution shall be so notified unless—it has been established or constituted by or under any Central or State Act other than this Act or the previous Companies Law; ornot less than fifty-one per cent of the paid-up share capital is held or controlled by the Central Government or by any State Government or Governments or partly by the Central Government and partly by one or more State Governments.In the instant case, the major shareholders holding paid-up share capital in Rural Development Fin. Corp. Ltd. by the Central Government and State Governments is 68% (i.e. Central Government: 26%, State of Maharashtra: 18% and State of Tamilnadu: 24%), hence it will beregarded as ‘Public Financial Institution’ under the Companies Act, 2013.By virtue of Section 2(72) of the Companies Act, 2013, the following institutions are to be regarded as public financial institutions:the Life Insurance Corporation of India, established under the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956;the Infrastructure Development Finance Company Limited,specified company referred to in the Unit Trust of India (Transfer of Undertaking and Repeal) Act, 2002;institutions notified by the Central Government under section 4A(2) of the Companies Act, 1956 so repealed under section 465 of this Act;such other institution as may be notified by the Central Government in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India.(ii)  No, it is not mandatory to have common seal for the company.In case a company does not have a common seal, the authorization shall be made by two directors or by a director and the Company Secretary, wherever the company has appointed a Company Secretary.Some of the agreements which are held to be opposed to public policy are-Trading with enemy: Any trade with person owing allegiance to a Government at war with India without the licence of the Government of India is void, as the object is opposed to public policy. Here, the agreement to trade offends against the public policy by tending to prejudice the interest of the State in times of war.Stifling Prosecution: An agreement to stifle prosecution i.e. “an agreement to present proceedings already instituted from running their normal course using force” tends to be a perversion or an abuse of justice; therefore, such an agreement is void. The principle is that one should not make a trade of felony. The compromise of any public offence is generally illegal.Under the Indian Criminal Procedure Code, there is, however, a statutory list of compoundable offences and an agreement to dropproceeding relating to such offences with or without the permission of the Court, as the case may be, in consideration the accused promising to do something for the complainant, is not opposed to public policy.Maintenance and Champerty: Maintenance is an agreement in which a person promises to maintain suit in which he has no interest.Champerty is an agreement in which a person agrees to assist another in litigation in-exchange of a promise to hand over a portion of the proceeds of the action.It is unreasonable so as to be unjust to other party orIt is made by a malicious motive like that of gambling in litigation or oppressing other party by encouraging unrighteous suits and not with the bonafide object of assisting a claim believed to be just.Trafficking relating to Public Offices and titles: An agreement to trafficking in public office is opposed to public policy, as it interferes with the appointment of a person best qualified for the service of the public. Public policy requires that there should be no money consideration for the appointment to an office in which the public is interested. The following are the examples of agreements that are void; since they are tantamount to sale of public offices.An agreement to pay money to a public servant in order to induce him to retire from his office so that another person may secure the appointment is void.An agreement to procure a public recognition like Padma Vibhushan for reward is void.Agreements tending to create monopolies: Agreements having for their object the establishment of monopolies are opposed to public policy and therefore void.Marriage brokerage agreements: An agreement to negotiate marriage for reward, which is known as a marriage brokerage contract, is void, as it is opposed to public policy.Interference with the course of justice: An agreement whose object is to induce any judicial officer of the State to act partially or corruptly is void, as it is opposed to public policy.Interest against obligation: The following are examples of agreement that are void as they tend to create an interest against obligation. The object of such agreements is opposed to public policy.An agreement by an agent to receive without his principal’s consent compensation from another for the performance of his agency is invalid.A, who is the manager of a firm, agrees to pass a contract to X if X pays to A ` 200,000 privately; the agreement is void.Consideration Unlawful in Part: By virtue of Section 24, if any part of a single consideration for one or more objects, or any one or any part of any one of several considerations for a single object, is unlawful, the agreement is void.”This section is an obvious consequence of the general principle of Section 23. There is no promise for a lawful consideration if there is anything illegal in a consideration which must be taken as a whole. The general rule is that where the legal part of a contract can be severed from the illegal part, the bad part may be rejected and the good one can be retained. But where the illegal part cannot be severed, the contract is altogether void.Question 4A, B and C jointly promised to pay D a sum of ` 6,000. Examine, considering the provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 -Can D compel any of three parties A, Band C to pay him ` 6,000?C is compelled to pay the whole of the amount to D. Can he recover anything from A and B, when -Both A and B were solvents.A is not in a position to pay anything.	(7 Marks)What are the rules governing the compensation payable in the event of dishonour of a negotiable instrument under the provisions of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881?	(7 Marks)Ashok and Vimal are pursuing chartered accountancy course and discussing about the structure of the Indian judicial system. Explain them the functions of judiciary system of India and the hierarchy of courts and briefly explain their functioning under the Indian Regulatory Framework.	(6 Marks)AnswerSection 42 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 requires that when two or more persons have made a joint promise, then, unless a contrary intention appears from the contract, all such persons jointly must fulfil the promise. In the event of the death of any of them, his representative jointly with the survivors and in case of the death of all promisors, the representatives of all jointly must fulfil the promise.Section 43 allows the promisee to seek performance from any of the joint promisors. The liability of the joint promisors has thus been made not only joint but “joint and several”. Section 43 provides that in the absence of express agreement to the contrary, the promisee may compel any one or more of the joint promisors to perform the whole of the promise.Section 43 deals with the contribution among joint promisors. The promisors, may compel every joint promisor to contribute equally to the performance of the promise (unless a contrary intention appears from the contract). If any one of the joint promisors makes default in such contribution the remaining joint promisors must bear the loss arising from such default in equal shares.In the instant case,D can compel any of three parties A, B and C to pay him ` 6,000.(1) C can recover the contribution from A and B because A, B and C are joint promisors.(2) A is unable to pay anything, C is compelled to pay the whole. C is entitled to receive ` 3,000 from B.Rules as to compensation (Section 117 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881):The compensation payable in case of dishonour of promissory note, bill of exchange or cheque, by any party liable to the holder or any endorsee, shall be determined by the following rules:the holder is entitled to the amount due upon the instrument, together with the expenses properly incurred in presenting, noting and protesting it;when the person charged resides at a place different from that at which the instrument was payable, the holder is entitled to receive such sum at the current rate of exchange between the two places;an endorser who, being liable, has paid the amount due on the same is entitled to the amount so paid with interest at 18% per annum from the date of payment until tender or realisation thereof, together with all expenses caused by the dishonour and payment;when the person charged and such endorser reside at different places, the endorser is entitled to receive such sum at the current rate of exchange between the two places;the party entitled to compensation may draw a bill upon the party liable to compensate him, payable at sight or on demand, for the amount due to him, together with all expenses properly incurred by him. Such bill must be accompanied by the instrument dishonoured and the protest thereof (if any). If such bill is dishonoured, the party dishonouring the same is liable to make compensation thereof in the same manner as in the case of the original bill.The functions of judiciary system of India are:Regulation of the interpretation of the Acts and Codes,Dispute Resolution,Promotion of fairness among the citizens of the land.In the hierarchy of courts, the Supreme Court is at the top, followed by the High Courts and District Courts. Decisions of a High Court are binding in the respective state but are only persuasive in other states. Decisions of the Supreme Court are binding on all High Courts under Article 141 of the Indian Constitution. In fact, a Supreme Court decision is the final word on the matter.Supreme Court: The Supreme Court is the apex body of the judiciary. It was established on 26th January, 1950. The Chief Justice of India is the highest authority appointed under Article 126. The principal benchof the Supreme Court consists of seven members including the Chief Justice of India. Presently, the number has increased to 34 including the Chief Justice of India due to the rise in the number of cases and workload. An individual can seek relief in the Supreme Court by filing a writ petition under Article 32.High Court: The highest court of appeal in each state and union territory is the High Court. Article 214 of the Indian Constitution states that there must be a High Court in each state. The High Court has appellant, original jurisdiction, and Supervisory jurisdiction. However, Article 227 of the Indian Constitution limits a High Court’s supervisory power. In India, there are twenty-five High Courts, one for each state and union territory. Six states share a single High Court. An individual can seek remedies against violation of fundamental rights in High Court by filing a writ under Article 226.District Court: Below the High Courts are the District Courts. The Courts of District Judge deal with Civil law matters i.e. contractual disputes and claims for damages etc., The Courts of Sessions deals with Criminal matters.Under pecuniary jurisdiction, a civil judge can try suits valuing not more than Rupees two crore.Jurisdiction means the power to control. Courts get territorial Jurisdiction based on the areas covered by them. Cases are decided based on the local limits within which the parties reside or the property under dispute is situated.Metropolitan courts: Metropolitan courts are established in metropolitan cities in consultation with the High Court where the population is ten lakh or more. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate has powers as Chief Judicial Magistrate and Metropolitan Magistrate has powers as the Court of a Magistrate of the first class.Question 5(i) The Institute of Science, Pune (the buyer), placed an order for various chemicals worth ` 1,50,000 from a supplier in Delhi (the seller). The buyer made full advance payment, and the seller dispatched the consignment via a courier of his own choice, without reserving any rightof disposal over the goods. The consignment was lost in transit, and now the buyer seeks a refund of the purchase price. With reference to the provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930, assess the validity of the buyer's claim for a refund.	(4 Marks)(ii) Adarsh visited an authorized car showroom and purchased a car of his choice without conducting a detailed inspection. After making the payment and taking delivery of the car, he discovered a defect in the engine that could not have been detected even with a reasonable inspection. With reference to the provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930, advise, whether Adarsh can invoke the implied condition of merchantability and repudiate the contract due to the defect in the car.(3 Marks)(i)  Explain the following terms under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932:Partner by holding outNominal Partner	(4 Marks)(ii) "Dissolution of a partnership firm may occur by mutual agreement with the consent of the majority of partners, while compulsory dissolution requires an order from the court." Discuss this statement with reference to the relevant provisions of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932.(3 Marks)Explain with reference to the Indian Contract Act, 1872:When a contract is said to be induced by "undue influence".When a party is deemed to be in a position to dominate the will of another.	(6 Marks)Answer(i) Delivery of the goods to the carrier [Section 23(2) of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930]: Where, in pursuance of the contract, the seller delivers the goods to the buyer or to a carrier or other bailee (whether named by the buyer or not) for the purpose of transmission to the buyer, and does not reserve the right of disposal, he is deemed to have unconditionally appropriated the goods to the contract.In the instant case, the Institute of Science, Pune placed an order for various chemicals worth ` 1,50,000 from a supplier in Delhi. The sellerdispatched the consignment via a courier without reserving any right of disposal over the goods. The consignment was lost in transit. According to Section 23(2), it is an unconditional appropriation of goods because of which the Institute of Science, Pune (buyer) has become the owner of the goods. Therefore, it will bear the risk of loss of the consignment in the way. Hence, the buyer’s claim is not valid.Condition as to Merchantability [Section 16(2) of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930]: Where goods are bought by description from a seller who deals in goods of that description (whether he is the manufacturer or producer or not), there is an implied condition that the goods shall be of merchantable quality.There are two requirements for this condition to apply:Goods should be bought by description.The seller should be a dealer in goods of that description.Provided that, if the buyer has examined the goods, there shall be no implied condition as regards defects which such examination ought to have revealed.The expression “merchantable quality”, though not defined, nevertheless connotes goods of such a quality and in such a condition a man of ordinary prudence would accept them as goods of that description. It does not imply any legal right or legal title to sell.In the instant case, the defect in the engine could not have been detected even with a reasonable inspection.Therefore, Adarsh can invoke the implied condition of merchantability and is entitled to repudiate the contract due to the defect in the car.(i) (1) Partner by holding out (Section 28 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932): Where a man holds himself out as a partner, or allows others to do it, he is then stopped from denying the character he has assumed and upon the faith of which creditors may be presumed to have acted.(2) Nominal Partner: A person who lends his name to the firm, without having any real interest in it, is called a nominal partner.He is not entitled to share the profits of the firm. Neither he invests in the firm nor takes part in the conduct of the business. He is, however liable to third parties for all acts of the firm.Dissolution by Agreement (Section 40 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932):Section 40 gives right to the partners to dissolve the partnership by agreement with the consent of all the partners or in accordance with a contract between the partners. ‘Contract between the partners’ means a contract already made.Hence, the statement ‘dissolution of a firm by the consent of the majority of the partners is not correct unless otherwise provided in a contract between them.Compulsory dissolution (Section 41):A firm is compulsorily dissolvedby the happening of any event which makes it unlawful for the business of the firm to be carried on or for the partners to carry it on in partnership.Hence, the statement ‘compulsory dissolution requires an order from the court’ is not correct.(i) Undue influence (Section 16): According to section 16 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, “A contract is said to be induced by ‘undue influence’ where the relations subsisting between the parties are such that one of the parties is in a position to dominate the will of the other and he uses that position to obtain an unfair advantage over the other”.Position to dominate the will: Relation between the parties exist in such a manner that one of them is in a position to dominate the will of the other. A person is deemed to be in such position in the following circumstances:Real and apparent authority: Where a person holds a real authority over the other as in the case of master and servant, doctor and patient and etc.Fiduciary relationship: Where relation of trust and confidence exists between the parties to a contract. Such type of relationshipexists between father and son, solicitor and client, husband and wife, creditor and debtor, etc.Mental distress: An undue influence can be used against a person to get his consent on a contract where the mental capacity of the person is temporarily or permanently affected by the reason of mental or bodily distress, illness or of old age.Unconscionable bargains: Where one of the parties to a contract is in a position to dominate the will of the other and the contract is apparently unconscionable i.e., unfair, it is presumed by law that consent must have been obtained by undue influence. Unconscionable bargains are witnessed mostly in money-lending transactions and in gifts.Question 6(i)  Anjali purchased various cosmetic products worth ` 15,000 during the last week from Sushil, a shopkeeper, on credit of one month. After a fortnight, she makes out a blank promissory note, signed it and delivered to Sushil who further endorsed it to Manish for the payment of his dues. Manish, who is holder in due course, filled up the due amount of ` 17,000 from Sushil and on maturity presented it to Anjali for payment but she refused to pay because the amount filled up is more than the agreed amount of ` 15,000. It is to be noted that the amount of ` 17,000 is covered by the stamp affixed on it. Referring to the provisions of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 decide, whether Anjali is liable to honour the promissory note to Manish for ` 17,000?	(4 Marks)(ii) Priya, a small business owner, receives a bill of exchange from her customer, Sanjay, which is due for payment on October 15th. On October 12th, Priya presents the bill of exchange for payment at Sanjay's office during regular business hours, but Sanjay is not present. Priya leaves the bill with Sanjay's assistant, requesting to be presented to Sanjay for payment when he returns. However, Sanjay's assistant forgot to give the bill, and Sanjay does not make the payment by the due date, and the bill is dishonoured. Based on the provisions of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, examine whether Priya's presentation of the bill of exchange to Sanjay's assistant is valid under law.	(3 Marks)What are the conditions to be satisfied for an "Agent's authority in an emergency" under the provisions of The Indian Contract Act, 1872?(6 Marks)ORBoth a sub-agent and a substituted agent are appointed by the agent, however, there are some points of distinction between the two. Elaborate any 6 points.	(6 Marks)What are the rights of a buyer, when seller commits a breach of contract under the provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930?	(7 Marks)Answer(i) Section 20 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 reads as “Where one person signs and delivers to another a paper stamped in accordance with the law relating to negotiable instruments then in force in India, and either wholly blank or having written thereon an incomplete negotiable instrument, he thereby gives prima facie authority to the holder thereof to make or complete, as the case may be, upon it a negotiable instrument, for any amount specified therein and not exceeding the amount covered by the stamp.The person so signing shall be liable upon such instrument, in the capacity in which he signed the same, to any holder in due course for such amount. Provided that no person other than a holder in due course shall recover from the person delivering the instrument anything in excess of the amount intended by him to be paid thereunder”.In the instant case, Anjali is not liable to honour the promissory note to Manish for ` 17000. She is liable only for ` 15000.(ii) Presentment for payment [Section 64 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881]As per section 64 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, promissory notes, bill of exchange and cheques must be presented for payment to the maker, acceptor or drawee thereof respectively, by or on behalf of the holder as hereinafter provided.In default of such presentment, the other parties thereto are not liable thereon to such holder.So, presentment for payment must be made to the person primarily liable on the instrument, or in their absence, at the proper place during the usual business hours.In this case, Priya presented the bill at Sanjay’s office during regular business hours, but since Sanjay was not present, she left the bill with his assistant.While leaving the bill with the assistant might be considered a practical step, it does not fulfil the strict legal requirement of presenting the bill directly to the drawee (Sanjay) or his authorised representative for payment.Therefore, the presentation of the bill by Priya to Sanjay’s assistant is not valid under law.Agent’s authority in an emergency [Section 189 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872]: An agent has authority, in an emergency, to do all such acts for the purpose of protecting his principal from loss as would be done by a person of ordinary prudence, in his own case, under similar circumstances.To constitute a valid agency in an emergency, following conditions must be satisfied:Agent should not be in a position or have any opportunity to communicate with his principal within the time available.There should have been actual and definite commercial necessity for the agent to act promptly.the agent should have acted bonafide and for the benefit of the principal.the agent should have adopted the most reasonable and practicable course under the circumstances, andthe agent must have been in possession of the goods belonging to his principal and which are the subject of contract.ORUnder the Indian Contract Act, 1872, both a sub-agent and a substituted agent are appointed by the agent. But, however, the following are the points of distinction between the two.S.No.Sub AgentSubstituted Agent1.A sub-agent does his work under the control and directions of agent.A substituted agent works under the instructions of the principal.2.The agent not only appoints a sub-agent but also delegates to him a part of his own duties.The agent does not delegate any part of his task to a substituted agent.3.There is no privity of contract between the principal and the sub-agent.Privity of contract is established between a principal and a substituted agent.4.The sub-agent is responsible to the agent alone and is not generally responsible to the principal.A substituted agent is responsible to the principal and not to the original agent who appointed him5.The agent is responsible to the principal for the acts of the sub-agent.The agent is not responsible to the principal for the acts of the substituted agent.6.The sub-agent has no right of action against the principal for remuneration due to him.The substituted agent can sue the principal for remuneration due to him.7.Sub-agents	may	be improperly appointed.Substituted agents can never be improperly appointed.8.The agent remains liable for the acts of the sub-agent as long as the sub-agency continues.The agent's duty ends once he has named the substituted agent.If the seller commits a breach of contract, the buyer gets the following rights against the seller:Damages for non-delivery [Section 57 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930]: Where the seller wrongfully neglects or refuses to deliver the goods to the buyer, the buyer may sue the seller for damages for non- delivery.Suit for specific performance (Section 58): Where the seller commits of breach of the contract of sale, the buyer can appeal to the court for specific performance. The court can order for specific performance only when the goods are ascertained or specific.This remedy is allowed by the court subject to these conditions:The contract must be for the sale of specific and ascertained goods.The power of the court to order specific performance is subject to provisions of the Specific Relief Act of 1963.It empowers the court to order specific performance where damages would not be an adequate remedy.It will be granted as remedy if goods are of special nature or are unique.Suit for breach of warranty (Section 59): Where there is breach of warranty on the part of the seller, or where the buyer elects to treat breach of condition as breach of warranty, the buyer is not entitled to reject the goods only on the basis of such breach of warranty. But he may –set up against the seller the breach of warranty in diminution or extinction of the price; orsue the seller for damages for breach of warranty.Repudiation of contract before due date (Section 60): Where either party to a contract of sale repudiates the contract before the date of delivery, the other may either treat the contract as subsisting and wait till the date of delivery, or he may treat the contract as rescinded and sue for damages for the breach.Suit for interest:Nothing in this Act shall affect the right of the seller or the buyer to recover interest or special damages, in any case where by law interest or special damages may be recoverable, or to recover the money paid where the consideration for the payment of it has failed.In the absence of a contract to the contrary, the court may award interest at such rate as it thinks fit on the amount of the price to the buyer in a suit filed by him for the refund of the price (in a case of a breach of the contract on the part of the seller) from the date on which the payment was made.PAPER – 2: BUSINESS LAWSQuestion No. 1 is compulsory.Attempt any four questions from the remaining five questions.Working notes should form part of the AnswersQuestion 1(i) Mr. L let out his residential house to Mr. M for ` 50,000 p.m. for a period of one year. According to the Rent agreement, electricity bill will be paid by Mr. L. But Mr. L could not pay electricity dues up to 5 months, due to his financial hardships. The Electricity Board sent the notice of disconnection, if it is not paid within a week's time. To avoid all this, Mr. M paid the electricity bill of ` 50,000 with penalty. Later on, L refused to reimburse ` 50,000 and argued that he has paid bill voluntarily because of his own interest. Decide with reference to provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 whether Mr. M is entitled to be reimbursed by Mr. L?	(3 Marks)Mr. A offered to sell 25 chairs to Mr. B @ ` 1,500 per chair on 12.02.2024. A promised B that he would keep the offer open till 15.02.2024. However, on 13.02.2024, he sold those chairs to Mr. C @` 1,700 per chair without the knowledge of B. Mr. B communicated the acceptance of the above offer on 14.02.2024.Advise, with reference to provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 whether Mr. B can claim damages from Mr. A?	(2 Marks)Mr. A was running an orphanage. His friend Mr. S, a philanthropist agreed to donate ` 2 lakh for treatment of a child, who was suffering from cancer. On emergency, Mr. A incurred ` 1.5 lakh on treatment of child. Now, Mr. S refused to pay. Whether Mr. A can claim ` 1.5 lakh from Mr. S with reference to provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872?	(2 Marks)(i) Kamal, a Chartered Accountant started his e-commerce business by incorporating a One Person Company (the OPC) on 1st October, 2023. He, being a sole member of the OPC named his brother Sudhakar, withhis consent, as his nominee in the Memorandum of Association of the OPC. Now, Kamal intends to replace Sudhakar and to nominate any one of the following short- listed friends as a nominee with effect from 1st January, 2024.Robert, an Indian citizen, and a resident in India shifted his residence to the USA on 31st May, 2022 and has not returned to India till 1st January, 2024.Dinkar, an Indian citizen, and non-resident in India came for employment in India on 1st April, 2023 and have been continuously staying in India since then.Referring to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, advise Kamal regarding eligibility of his short-listed friends to be appointed nominee and the procedure to be followed for changing the name of the nominee as per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.  (4 Marks)(ii) XYZ Ltd. was incorporated to hold the patent for a new product. The company is expecting to start its commercial production within the next two years. In the meanwhile, for timely installation, the company has placed the purchase order for plant and machinery with a down payment of ` 1 crore. Referring to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 examine, whether the company can go for acquiring the status of a dormant company?	(3 Marks)Referring to the provisions of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, answer the following:"If a partner is otherwise expelled; the expulsion is null and void." Discuss.	(4 Marks)"The partner who is expelled will cease to be liable to the third party for the act of the firm done after expulsion." Analyse.	(2 Marks)Answer(i)  According to Section 69 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, a person who is interested in the payment of money which another is bound by law to pay, and who therefore pays it, is entitled to be reimbursed by the other.In the instant case, Mr. M paid the electricity bill to avoid the disconnection that was pending due to Mr. L's failure to fulfil hiscontractual obligation. Hence, Mr. M is entitled to be reimbursed₹ 50,000 from Mr. L.In terms of Section 5 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, a proposal can be revoked at any time before the communication of its acceptance is complete as against the proposer.Accordingly, an offer may be revoked by the offeror before its acceptance, even though he had originally agreed to hold it open for a definite period of time. So long as it is a mere offer, it can be withdrawn whenever the offeror desires.In the instant case, B cannot claim damages from A because the offer made by A is a mere offer and it can be withdrawn whenever A desires.The general rule is that an agreement made without consideration is void (Section 25 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872).However, in the following case, the agreement though made without consideration, will be valid and enforceable.Charity: If a promisee undertakes the liability on the promise of the person to contribute to charity, there the contract shall be valid.In the instant case, Mr. A can claim 1.5 lakh from Mr. S.(i)	As per Rule 3 of the Companies (Incorporation) Rules, 2014:Only a natural person who is an Indian citizen whether resident in India or otherwiseshall be eligible to incorporate a One Person Company;shall be a nominee for the sole member of a One Person Company.Here, “resident in India” means a person who has stayed in India for a period of not less than one hundred and twenty days during the immediately preceding financial year.In the instant case,Robert cannot be appointed as a nominee in the OPC by Kamal as his stay in the preceding F/Y 2022-23 is only for 61 days which is less than 120 days.Dinkar can be appointed as a nominee in the OPC by Kamal as he is an Indian Citizen and non-resident in India.Alternative Answer as follows:As per Rule 3 of the Companies (Incorporation) Rules, 2014:Only a natural person who is an Indian citizen whether resident in India or otherwise and has stayed in India for a period of not less than 120 days during the immediately preceding financial yearshall be eligible to incorporate a OPC;shall be a nominee for the sole member of a OPC. In the instant case,Robert cannot be appointed as a nominee in the OPC by Kamalas his stay in the preceding F/Y 2022-23 is only for 61 days which is less than 120 days.Dinkar cannot be appointed as a nominee in the OPC by Kamal as he has not stayed in the preceding F/Y 2022-23 for a single day.Procedure for changing the nominee: The member of OPC may at any time change the name of nominee by giving notice to the company and the company shall intimate the same to the Registrar.Any such change in the name of the person shall not be deemed to be an alteration of the memorandum.(ii) According to Section 455 of the Companies Act, 2013, where a company is formed and registered under this Act for a future project or to hold an asset or intellectual property and has no significant accounting transaction, such a company or an inactive company may make an application to the Registrar in such manner as may be prescribed for obtaining the status of a dormant company.In the instant case, XYZ Ltd. has made a significant accounting transaction (down payment of ₹1 crore for plant and machinery), it does not meet the criteria of a dormant company under Section 455 of the Companies Act, 2013.Therefore, XYZ Ltd. cannot acquire the status of dormant company.(i)	If a partner is otherwise expelled, the expulsion is null and void.According to Section 33 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932the power of expulsion must have existed in a contract between the partners;the power has been exercised by a majority of the partners; andit has been exercised in good faith.If all these conditions are not present, the expulsion is not deemed to be in bona fide interest of the business of the firm.The test of good faith as required under Section 33(1) includes three things:The expulsion must be in the interest of the partnership.The partner to be expelled is served with a notice.He is given an opportunity of being heard.Hence, it is correct to say that, if a partner is otherwise expelled, the expulsion is null and void.(ii) “The partner who is expelled will cease to be liable to the third party for the act of the firm done after expulsion”According to Section 32(3) of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, notwithstanding the expulsion a partner from a firm, he and the partners continue to be liable as partners to third parties for any act done by any of them which would have been an act of the firm if done before the expulsion, until public notice is given of the expulsion.However, an expelled partner is not liable to any third party who deals with the firm without knowing that he was a partner.Hence, the statement given is partially correct.Question 2(i)  M/s RK Traders (Buyer) made a contract with M/s CK Traders (Seller) for purchase of 2000 kg of basmati rice specifically grown in Chhattisgarh State should be packed in pink colour bags of 25 kg each to identify the place of origin by specifying the mode of packing ofbasmati rice. The seller agreed for specific packing of rice grown in Chhattisgarh State. However, by misunderstanding, staff of seller packed the quantity of 1800 kg of basmati rice grown in the State of Maharashtra in white colour bags of 30 kg each and the remaining quantity of 200 kg, grown in Chhattisgarh State, in pink colour bags of 25 kg each. Referring to the provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 analyse, whether the buyer has the right to reject the entire quantity of basmati rice supplied by the seller.On the other hand what is the remedy available to buyer if he has to accept the entire quantity to fulfil his other contracts with other parties?	(4 Marks)(ii) Kartik agreed to sell his laptop to Vasant for a price to be fixed by Kusum a hardware engineer. However, before the delivery of the laptop, Kartik changed his mind and did not share any particulars and configuration of the laptop with Kusum, which made her unable to do the valuation. Kusum refused to do valuation.Vasant needed laptop for his project, so he promised Kartik that, if the laptop is delivered to him, he would pay a reasonable price for it However, Kartik decided not to sell his laptop to Vasant. Now, Vasant wants to know from you, being a legal expert, whether Kartik is bound by his promise as he agreed earlier to deliver his laptop to him at a reasonable price. If he does not agree to deliver what is the other remedy available to Vasant? Advise, referring to the provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930.	(3 Marks)Referring to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, answer the following:"Corporate veil sometimes fails to protect the members of the company from the liability connected to the company's actions." Explain any three instances.	(5 Marks)What is the effect of Memorandum and Articles when registered?(2 Marks)Referring to the provisions of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008, answer the following:Under what circumstances a Limited Liability Partnership is compulsorily required to change its name? Also, explain the compliance requirement following the change of name and the consequences, if any, in case of default therein.	(4 Marks)What do you mean by a Small Limited Liability Partnership? (2 Marks)Answer(i) According to Section 15 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930, where there is a contract of sale of goods by description, there is an implied condition that the goods shall correspond with the description. The buyer is not bound to accept and pay for the goods which are not in accordance with the description of goods.In the instant case, the contract specified that the basmati rice should be grown in Chhattisgarh, packed in pink colour bags of 25 kg each but the seller mistakenly packed 1800 kg of rice from Maharashtra in white bags of 30 kg each, and only 200 kg of rice from Chhattisgarh in the correct pink bags.Therefore, the buyer has the right to reject the entire quantity of basmati rice supplied by the buyer as the goods do not correspond with the description.ANSWER TO SECOND PARTIn case the buyer has to accept the entire quantity of rice to fulfil his other contracts with other parties, he can claim damages which provides that where the seller wrongfully neglects or refuses to deliver the goods to the buyer, the buyer may sue the seller for damages for non-delivery.ALTERNATE ANSWER TO SECOND PARTSection 13 of the Sale of the Goods Act, 1930 specifies cases where a breach of condition be treated as a breach of warranty. As a result of which the buyer loses his right to rescind the contract and can claim damages only.In the following cases, a contract is not avoided even on account of a breach of a condition:Where the buyer altogether waives the performance of the condition. A party may for his own benefit, waive a stipulation. It should be a voluntary waiver by buyer.Where the buyer elects to treat the breach of the conditions, as one of a warranty. That is to say, he may claim only damages instead of repudiating the contract. Here, the buyer has not waived the condition but decided to treat it as a warranty.According to above stated provision, there is a breach of condition, and the buyer can reject the goods. But if the buyer so elects, he may treat it as a breach of warranty, hence he may accept the entire quantity to fulfil his other contracts with other parties and claim damages.Section 10 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 provides for the determination of price by a third party.Where there is an agreement to sell goods on the terms that price has to be fixed by the third party and he either does not or cannot make such valuation, the agreement will be void.In case the third party is prevented by the default of either party from fixing the price, the party at fault will be liable to the damages to the other party who is not at fault.In the instant case, as Kusum cannot do valuation of laptop due to non-sharing of particulars and configuration by Kartik who was bound by his promise, the agreement will be void.The other remedy available to Vasant is that he can claim damages from Kartik as he will be liable for the damages to Vasant who is not at fault.(i) "Corporate veil sometimes fails to protect the members of the company from the liability connected to the company's actions."The following are the cases where company law disregards the principle of corporate personality or the principle that the company is a legal entity distinct and separate from its shareholders or members:To determine the character of the company i.e. to find out whether co-enemy or friend: It is true that, unlike a natural person, a company does not have mind or conscience; therefore,it cannot be a friend or foe. It may, however, be characterised as an enemy company, if its affairs are under the control of people of an enemy country. For this purpose, the Court may examine the character of the persons who are really at the helm of affairs of the company.To protect revenue/tax: In certain matters concerning the law of taxes, duties and stamps particularly where question of the controlling interest is in issue.Where corporate entity is used to evade or circumvent tax, the Court can disregard the corporate entity.Where the company was not a genuine company at all but merely the assessee himself disguised under the legal entity of a limited company.To avoid a legal obligation: Where it was found that the sole purpose for the formation of the company was to use it as a device to reduce the amount to be paid by way of bonus to workmen, the Supreme Court upheld the piercing of the veil to look at the real transaction (The Workmen Employed in Associated Rubber Industries Limited, Bhavnagar vs. The Associated Rubber Industries Ltd., Bhavnagar and another).Formation of subsidiaries to act as agents: A company may sometimes be regarded as an agent or trustee of its members, or of another company, and may therefore be deemed to have lost its individuality in favour of its principal. Here the principal will be held liable for the acts of that company.Company formed for fraud/improper conduct or to defeat law: Where the device of incorporation is adopted for some illegal or improper purpose, e.g., to defeat or circumvent law, to defraud creditors or to avoid legal obligations.(ii) Effect of Memorandum and Articles: As per Section 10 of the Companies Act, 2013, where the memorandum and articles when registered, shall bind the company and the members thereof to the same extent as if they respectively had been signed by the company and by each member, and an agreement to observe all the provisions of the memorandum and of the articles.All monies payable by any member to the company under the memorandum or articles shall be a debt due from him to the company.(i) Change of name of LLP (Section 17 of Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008):Notwithstanding anything contained in sections 15 and 16, if through inadvertence or otherwise, a LLP, on its first registration or on its registration by a new body corporate, its registered name, is registered by a name which is identical with or too nearly resembles to —that of any other LLP or a company; ora registered trade mark of a proprietor under the Trade Marks Act, 1999, as is likely to be mistaken for it,then on an application of such LLP or proprietor referred to in clauses (a) and (b) respectively or a company,the Central Government may direct that such LLP to change its name or new name within a period of 3 months from the date of issue of such direction.Where a LLP changes its name or obtains a new name under sub- section (1), it shall within a period of 15 days from the date of such change, give notice of the change to Registrar along with the order of the Central Government, who shall carry out necessary changes in the certificate of incorporation and within 30 days of such change in the certificate of incorporation, such LLP shall change its name in the LLP agreement.If the LLP is in default in complying with any direction given under sub-section (1), the Central Government shall allot a new name to the LLP in such manner as may be prescribed and the Registrar shall enter the new name in the register of LLP in place of the old name and issue a fresh certificate of incorporation with new name, which the LLP shall use thereafter.Nothing contained in this sub-section shall prevent a LLP from subsequently changing its name in accordance with the provisions of section 16.Small Limited Liability Partnership [Section 2(1)(ta) of the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008]: It means a limited liability partnership—the contribution of which, does not exceed twenty-five lakh rupees or such higher amount, not exceeding five crore rupees, as may be prescribed; andthe turnover of which, as per the Statement of Accounts and Solvency for the immediately preceding financial year, does not exceed forty lakh rupees or such higher amount, not exceeding fifty crore rupees, as may be prescribed; orwhich meets such other requirements as may be prescribed, and fulfils such terms and conditions as may be prescribed.Question 3Referring to the provisions of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, answer the following:Ram and Shyam are partners in a partnership firm styled as RS & Co. (the firm). Gopal, a renowned businessman, is their common friend. Ram introduced Gopal to Sundar, a supplier to the firm, as his newly joined partner. Gopal knowing that he is not a partner preferred to keep quiet on such an introduction. This information about Gopal, being a partner of the firm, was shared by Sundar with another businessman Madhav. Next day, Sundar supplied the raw material on credit and Madhav lent ` 5 lakhs to the firm for a short period on the understanding that Gopal is a partner of the firm. On due dates, the firm failed to discharge its liability towards both. Advise Gopal, whether he is liable to Sundar and Madhav for the aforesaid liability of the firm.(3 Marks)On admission as a new partner, Amar agreed to be liable for the existing debts (referred to as the old debts) of the firm by an agreement signed by the all partners including Amar. Examine, whether Amar will be liable in a suit filed by the creditor against the firm and all existing partners for recovery of the old debt of the firm.	(2 Marks)Suman, having 10% share in the property of ` 200 lakh of a firm retires from the firm on 31st March, 2023. The firm continues with the businessthereafter without final settlement of accounts between the existing and retired partners and earned profits of ` 10 lakh during the financial year ending 31st March, 2024. Suman, in her own interest and in the absence of any provision in the partnership firm on this point, claimed ` 3 lakh from the firm toward the use of her share in the property and profit of the firm which was-rejected by the partners. There is no contract between the partners contrary to the provisions of the Act in this regard. Examine the validity of the amount claimed by Suman under the provisions of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932.(2 Marks)(i)  JV Limited borrowed a secured loan of ` 5 crore from Star Bank Limited (the bank) to meet its working capital requirement. However, the borrowing powers of the company, under its Memorandum of Association, were restricted to ` 1 crore. The bank released the loan amount in two instalments of ` 1 crore and ` 4 crore. On the due date for repayment of the loan, the company refused to accept the liability of ` 5 crore on the ground that the borrowing was ultra vires the company. The company's books of account show that the company has utilised the loan amount of ` 3 crore for repayment of its lawful debts. The utilisation of the remaining ` 2 crore cannot be traced. Referring to the doctrine of ultra-vires under the Companies Act, 2013, examine the validity of the decision of the company denying the repayment of the loan and explore the remedy, if any, available to the bank for recovery of the loan.	(4 Marks)(ii) After incorporation of Goodwill Private Limited (the company) on 15th May, 2024 the share certificates were issued to Amit, Sumit and Sumati being subscribers to the Memorandum of Association of the company without affixing the common seal thereon and under the signature of Amit and Sumit, the directors of the company. The company has yet to appoint a company secretary. On objection raised by Sumati, a director, about the validity of the share certificate signed by other two directors, Amit and Sumit, clarified that since the company has opted not to have the common seal for the company the share certificates (i.e. the document) signed by two directors are valid. Referring to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, examine thecorrectness of the objection raised by one of the directors and in response, the clarification offered by other directors.Would your answer be different, if the company had a company secretary?	(3 Marks)(i) In case of breach of contract, the court may award compensation or damages. Explain the circumstances when court may award ordinary damages, special damages and liquidated damages under the provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872.	(3 Marks)What are the conditions need to be fulfilled to make the following agreements valid without consideration as per the provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872?Agreement made based on natural love and affectionPromise to pay time-barred debts	(3 Marks)Answer(i)	Partner by holding out (Section 28 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932):Anyone who by words spoken or written or by conduct represents himself, or knowingly permits himself to be represented, to be a partner in a firm, is liable as a partner in that firm to anyone who has on the faith of any such representation given credit to the firm, whether the person representing himself or represented to be a partner does or does not know that the representation has reached the person so giving credit.In the instant case, since Gopal allowed himself to be represented as a partner to the RS & Co. and third parties acted based on this belief and therefore, Gopal is held liable to Sundar as he represented himself by his act to be a partner to the RS & Co.However, Gopal is not liable to Madhav for the liabilities incurred by the firm. Information of Gopal being a partner to the firm was shared by the Sundar (Supplier to the firm) which is not falling within the ambit of doctrine of holding out.Hence Gopal is liable to Sundar and not to Madhav for the liability of the Firm.Rights and liabilities of new partner: The new firm, including the new partner who joins it, may agree to assume liability for the existing debts of the old firm, and creditors may agree to accept the new firm as their debtor and discharge the old partners. The creditor’s consent is necessary in every case to make the transaction operative. Novation is the technical term in a contract for substituted liability, of course, not confined only to case of partnership.But a mere agreement amongst partners cannot operate as Novation. Thus, an agreement between the partners and the incoming partner that he shall be liable for existing debts will not ipso facto give creditors of the firm any right against him.In the instant case, Amar will not be liable in a suit filed by the creditor against the firm and all existing partners for recovery of the old debt of the firm.According to section 37 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932,Where any member of a firm has died or otherwise ceased to be partner, and the surviving or continuing partnerscarry on the business of the firm with the property of the firm without any final settlement of accounts as between them and the outgoing partner or his estate, then, in the absence of a contract to the contrary,the outgoing partner or his estate is entitled at the option of himself or his representativesto such share of the profits made since he ceased to be a partner as may be attributable to the use of his share of the property of the firm orto interest at the rate of six per cent per annum on the amount of his share in the property of the firm.In the instant case, Suman is entitled to claim either interest on her share in the property i.e. ` 1,20,000 (6% of ` 20 Lakh) or a share of the profits i.e. ` 1 Lakh (10% of ` 10 Lakh) from the firm for the use of her share in the property.Therefore, claim of Suman of ` 3 Lakh is not valid.(i) Doctrine of ultra vires: The meaning of the term ultra vires is simply “beyond (their) powers”. It is a fundamental rule of Company Law that any act done or a contract made by the company which travels beyond the powers not only of the directors but also of the company is wholly void and inoperative in law and is therefore not binding on the company.The impact of the doctrine of ultra vires is that a company can neither be sued on an ultra vires transaction, nor can it sue on it. Since the memorandum is a “public document”, it is open to public inspection. Therefore, when one deals with a company one is deemed to know about the powers of the company. If in spite of this you enter into a transaction which is ultra vires the company, you cannot enforce it against the company.In the instant case, borrowing more than ₹1 crore was clearly beyond JV Limited’s powers as per its MoA, making the loan transaction ultra vires to the extent of the excess amount over ₹1 crore.Hence, the decision of the company denying the repayment of the loan being ultra virus the company shall be valid for ` 4 crore.If the funds have been applied for legitimate business purposes (such as repaying lawful debts), the lender steps into the shoes of the debtor paid off and consequently he would be entitled to recover his loan to that extent from the company.Therefore, JV Limited cannot deny repayment of ₹3 crore, as it wasutilised for lawful purposes, despite the ultra vires nature of the loan.Ultimately, the company has no remedy available to recover the balance amount of loan of ` 1 crore as the spending thereof is not traceable.The documents which need to be authenticated by a common seal will be required to be so done, only if the company opts to have a common seal.In case a company does not have a common seal, the authorization shall be made by two directors or by a director and the Company Secretary, wherever the company has appointed a Company Secretary.In the instant case, the objection of Sumati is not valid as the share certificate was signed by two directors Amit and Sumit as the company secretary was not appointed.If the company had a company secretary, then the share certificate has to be signed by a director and the Company secretary.Hence, yes, the answer will be different.(i) Ordinary damages: When a contract has been broken, the party who suffers by such breach is entitled to receive, from the party who has broken the contract, compensation for any loss or damage cause to him thereby, which naturally arose in the usual course of things from such breach, or which the parties know, when they made the contract, to be likely to result from the breach of it.Special damages: Where a party to a contract receives a notice of special circumstances affecting the contract, he will be liable not only for damages arising naturally and directly from the breach but also for special damages.Liquidated damage is a genuine pre-estimate of compensation of damages for certain anticipated breach of contract. This estimate is agreed to between parties to avoid at a later date detailed calculation and the necessity to convince outside parties.(A) Agreement made based on natural love and affection: Conditions to be fulfilled under section 25(1) of the Indian Contract Act, 1872It must be made out of natural love and affection between the parties.Parties must stand in near relationship to each other.It must be in writing.It must also be registered under the law.A written and registered agreement based on natural love and affection between the parties standing in near relation (e.g., husband and wife) to each other is enforceable even without consideration.(B) Promise to pay time barred debts: Where a promise in writing signed by the person making it or by his authorised agent, is made to pay a debt barred by limitation it is valid without consideration [Section 25(3)].Question 4(i) Raghav found gold and diamond studded wristwatch value approximately ` 1,00,000/- on the roadside. He picked it up and then advertised in the newspaper that the true owner thereof can take the watch after showing proper evidence. After waiting for a certain period of time, when the true owner did not tum up, he gifted that wristwatch to his son Mahesh. A few days later, Madhav, the true owner of watch, somehow noticed his watch on wrist of Mahesh. He approached him to collect the same, but Mahesh refused. In the evening, Raghav called Madhav and told him that he incurred f 20,000 to find the true owner if he fails to reimburse him the lawful expenses incurred on finding out the true owner, he will sue him for recovery thereof or retain the possession of the watch with him till recovery. Even he can sell the watch for recovery of expenses. Advise whether the following actions of Raghav were lawful according to provisions of The Indian Contract Act, 1872:Gifting the wristwatch to his son.Warning Madhav to sue for recovery of lawful expenses incurred in finding true owner.Retaining the possession of wristwatch till recovery of lawful expenses.Selling of wristwatch for recovery of expenses.	(4 Marks)Woollen Garments Limited entered into a contract with a group of women in July, 2023 to supply various woollen clothes for men, women and kids like sweaters, monkey caps, mufflers; woollen coats, hand gloves etc. before the commencement of the winter season. The agreement expressly provides that the woollen clothes shall be supplied by the end of October, 2023 before starting of winter season. However, due to the prolonged strike, women group could tender the supplies in March, 2024 when the winter season was almost over. Analysing thesituation and answer the following questions in light of the provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872:Whether company can reject the total supply by women group?Whether company can accept the total supply on request of women group?	(3 Marks)(i)  With reference to provisions of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, tell the instances where a person shall be deemed to have committed an offence for dishonour of cheque and what are the conditions to be complied with for not constituting such an offence?	(4 Marks)(ii) (A) All cheques are bills while all bills are not cheques. Explain the additional features of a cheque which differentiate a cheque from bill as per the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881.(B)  Ambiguous instrument	(3 Marks)Explain the types of laws in the Indian Legal System considering the Indian Regulatory Framework.	(6 Marks)Answer(i) Responsibility of finder of goods (Section 71 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872): A person who finds goods belonging to another and takes them into his custody is subject to same responsibility as if he were a bailee.Thus, a finder of lost goods has:to take proper care of the property as man of ordinary prudence would takeno right to appropriate the goods andto restore the goods if the owner is found.The right of finder of lost goods- may sue for specific reward offered [Section 168]: The finder of goods has no right to sue the owner for compensation for trouble and expense voluntarily incurred by him in finding the owner and preserving the goods found. But he has a right to retain the goods against the owner until he receives such compensation.When finder of thing commonly on sale may sell it [Section 169]: When a thing which is commonly the subject of sale if lost, if the owner cannot with reasonable diligence be found, or if he refuses, upon demand, to pay the lawful charges of the finder, the finder may sell it—when the thing is in danger of perishing or of losing the greater part of its value, orwhen the lawful charges of the finder in respect of the thing found amount to two-thirds of its value.Hence, the answers are:Gifting the wristwatch to his son Mahesh is unlawful. Raghav had no ownership rights over the watch and could not legally transfer it to someone else.Warning Madhav to Sue for Recovery of Lawful Expenses: Raghav has no right to sue Madhav for the expenses voluntarily incurred by Raghav in finding the owner.Retaining Possession of the Wristwatch Until Recovery of Lawful Expenses: Raghav’s action of retaining the wristwatch until Madhav reimburses him for lawful expenses is valid.Selling of Wristwatch for Recovery of Expenses: the watch is not perishable, and the expenses claimed (₹ 20,000) are far below two-thirds of the value of the watch (₹ 1,00,000). Therefore, Raghav does not have the right to sell the watch under these circumstances, and selling the watch would be unlawful.According to section 55 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, when a party to a contract promises to do certain thing at or before the specified time, and fails to do any such thing at or before the specified time, the contract, or so much of it as has not been performed, becomes voidable at the option of the promisee, if the intention of the parties was that time should be of essence of the contract.Effect of acceptance of performance at time other than agreed upon -If, in case of a contract voidable on account of the promisor’s failure to perform his promise at the time agreed, the promisee accepts performance of such promise at any time other than agreed, the promisee cannot claim compensation for any loss occasioned by the non-performance of the promise at the time agreed, unless, at the time of acceptance, he gives notice to the promisor of his intention to do so.In the instant case,Woollen Garments Limited is legally entitled to reject the goods due to the failure to meet the delivery deadline, as time was a crucial term of the contract.The company cannot accept the total supply on the request of woman group but only when the company i.e. buyer elects to do so. In that case, the company cannot claim compensation for any loss occasioned by the non-performance of the promise (i.e. delay in supply) at the time agreed.(i) According to Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, where any cheque drawn by a person on an account maintained by him with a banker—for payment of any amount of moneyto another person from that accountfor the discharge, in whole or in part, of any debt or other liability, [A cheque given as gift or donation, or as a security or in discharge of a mere moral obligation, or for an illegal consideration, would be outside the purview of this section]is returned by the bank unpaid,either because of the—amount of money standing to the credit of that account is insufficient to honor the cheque, orthat it exceeds the amount arranged to be paid from that account by an agreement made with that bank,such person shall be deemed to have committed an offence and shall, be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine which may extend to twice the amount of the cheque, or with both.When section 138 shall not apply: unless the below given conditions are complied with—Cheque presented within validity period: The cheque has been presented to the bank within a period of three months from the date on which it is drawn or within the period of its validity, whichever is earlier.Demand for the payment through the notice: the payee or the holder in due course of the cheque, as the case may be, makes a demand for the payment of the said amount of money by giving a notice, in writing, to the drawer of the cheque, within 30 days of the receipt of information by him from the bank regarding the return of the cheque as unpaid, andFailure of drawer to make payment: the drawer of such cheque fails to make the payment of the said amount of money to the payee or, as the case may be, to the holder in due course of the cheque, within fifteen days of the receipt of the said notice.(A) According to the definition of cheque under section 6 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, a cheque is a species of bill of exchange. Thus, it should fulfil all the essential characteristics of a bill of exchange.The following two features distinguish a cheque from billMust be drawn on a specified bankerIt must be payable on demandThus, all cheques are bills while all bills are not cheques.(B) Ambiguous Instrument: Section 17 of the Act, reads as: “Where an instrument may be construed either as a promissory note or bill of exchange, the holder may at his election treat it as either, and the instrument shall be thenceforward treated accordingly.”Thus, an instrument which is vague and cannot be clearly identified either as a bill of exchange, or as a promissory note, is an ambiguous instrument.The laws in the Indian legal system could be broadly classified as follows:Criminal LawCriminal law is concerned with laws pertaining to violations of the rule of law or public wrongs and punishment of the same. Criminal Law is governed under the Indian Penal Code, 1860, and the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (CrPC). The Indian Penal Code, 1860, defines the crime, its nature, and punishments whereas the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973, defines exhaustive procedure for executing the punishments of the crimes.Murder, rape, theft, fraud, cheating and assault are some examples of criminal offences under the law.Civil LawMatters of disputes between individuals or organisations are dealt with under Civil Law. Civil courts enforce the violation of certain rights and obligations through the institution of a civil suit. Civil law primarily focuses on dispute resolution rather than punishment. The act of process and the administration of civil law are governed by the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (CPC). Civil law can be further classified into Law of Contract, Family Law, Property Law, and Law of Tort.Some examples of civil offences are breach of contract, non-delivery of goods, non-payment of dues to lender or seller defamation, breach of contract, and disputes between landlord and tenant.Common LawA judicial precedent or a case law is common law. A judgment delivered by the Supreme Court will be binding upon the courts within the territory of India under Article 141 of the Indian Constitution. The doctrine of Stare Decisis is the principle supporting common law. It is a Latin phrase that means “to stand by that which is decided.” The doctrine of Stare Decisis reinforces the obligation of courts to follow the same principle or judgement established by previous decisions while ruling a case where the facts are similar or “on all four legs” with the earlier decision.Principles of Natural JusticeNatural justice, often known as Jus Natural deals with certain fundamental principles of justice going beyond written law. Nemo judex in causa sua (Literally meaning “No one should be made a judge in his own cause, and it’s a Rule against Prejudice), audi alteram partem (Literally meaning “hear the other party or give the other party a fair hearing), and reasoned decision are the rules of Natural Justice. A judgement can override or alter a common law, but it cannot override or change the statute.Question 5(i) Ashok, a trader, delivered a camera to Mangesh on 'sale or return' basis. Mangesh delivers the camera to Rahul on the terms of 'sale for cash only or return'. Afterward, Rahul delivered it to Vishal on a 'sale or return' basis without paying cash to Mangesh. The camera, which was in the possession of Vishal was lost by theft though he exercised due care for its safety. Referring to the provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930, analyse the situation and advise, whether Mangesh, Rahul or Vishal are, jointly or severally, liable to pay the price of the camera to Ashok.	(4 Marks)Ansari of Jaipur sold 100 smart TV set @ ` 50,000/- per set to Baburam of Delhi. He delivered the TV sets to Chetan, a transport carrier for transmission to Baburam. Baburam further sold these 100 TV sets to Shayamlal @ ` 60,000/- per set. On reaching the goods at the destination, Baburam demanded the delivery but Chetan, wrongfully, refused to deliver the goods to Baburam. That is why; he failed to deliver TV sets to Shayamlal and suffered a huge loss on account of non-delivery. Ansari came to know about this. He directed Chetan to stop the delivery to Baburam and re-deliver the goods to him at Jaipur.Answer the following questions under the provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930:Whether Ansari has right to stop the goods in transit?Whether Baburam can claim loss suffered due to non­delivery fromAnsari?	(3 Marks)State the circumstances, in which a Court may, at the suit of the partner, dissolve a partnership firm under the provisions of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932.	(7 Marks)In accordance with the provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, answer the following:Rights of Bailor against any wrong doer (Third Party)Duties of the Pawnee	(6 Marks)Answer(i) As per the provisions of section 24 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930, when goods are delivered to the buyer on approval or “on sale or return" or other similar terms, the property therein passes to the buyer when he does something to the good which is equivalent to accepting the goodse.g. he pledges or sells the goods.Referring to the above provisions, we can analyse the situation given in the question.Since, Mangesh, who had taken delivery of the camera on Sale or Return basis and delivers the same to Rahul on sale for cash only or return, has attracted the third condition that he has done something to the good which is equivalent to accepting the goods e.g. he pledges or sells the goods. Therefore, the property therein (Camera) passes to Mangesh.Now, Rahul delivered it to Vishal on a sale or return without paying cash to Mangesh.Since Rahul did not pay cash and had not exercised the option to purchase, ownership of the camera did not pass to Rahul. Therefore, Rahul is not liable to pay the price of the camera either.Since Vishal did not accept the goods and the camera was lost by theft (despite his due care), Vishal is not liable for the price of the camera as ownership had not passed to him.Therefore, Mangesh is solely liable to pay the price of the camera to Ashok, as he accepted the camera on a "sale or return" basis and did not return it within a reasonable time.(ii) According to Section 51 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930, when the carrier wrongfully refuses to deliver the goods to buyer, the right of stoppage in transit is lost and transit comes to an end.On the other hand, according to section 57 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930, where buyer suffers losses due to non-delivery, he can sue seller for damages on account of non-delivery.In the instant case, the transit came to an end when Chetan wrongfully refused to deliver the goods to Baburam, and he suffered a huge loss due to non- delivery. Hence, Ansari cannot exercise the right of stoppage of goods in transit as the transit has already come to an end.Baburam can claim loss suffered due to non-delivery from Ansari.DISSOLUTION BY THE COURT (SECTION 44 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932):Court may, at the suit of the partner, dissolve a firm on any of the following ground:Insanity/unsound mind: Where a partner (not a sleeping partner) has become of unsound mind, the court may dissolve the firm on a suit of the other partners or by the next friend of the insane partner. Temporary sickness is no ground for dissolution of firm.Permanent incapacity: When a partner, other than the partner suing, has become in any way permanently incapable of performing his duties as partner, then the court may dissolve the firm. Such permanent incapacity may result from physical disability or illness etc.Misconduct: Where a partner, other than the partner suing, is guilty of conduct which is likely to affect prejudicially the carrying on of business, the court may order for dissolution of the firm, by giving regard to the nature of business.Persistent breach of agreement: Where a partner other than the partner suing, wilfully or persistently commits breach of agreements relating to the management of the affairs of the firm or the conduct of its business, or otherwise so conduct himself in matters relating to the business that it is not reasonably practicable for other partners to carry on the business in partnership with him, then the court maydissolve the firm at the instance of any of the partners. Following comes in to category of breach of contract:Embezzlement,Keeping erroneous accountsHolding more cash than allowedRefusal to show accounts despite repeated request etc.Transfer of interest: Where a partner other than the partner suing, has transferred the whole of his interest in the firm to a third party or has allowed his share to be charged or sold by the court, in the recovery of arrears of land revenue due by the partner, the court may dissolve the firm at the instance of any other partner.Continuous/Perpetual losses: Where the business of the firm cannot be carried on except at a loss in future also, the court may order for its dissolution.Just and equitable grounds: Where the court considers any other ground to be just and equitable for the dissolution of the firm, it may dissolve a firm. The following are the cases for the just and equitable grounds-Deadlock in the management.Where the partners are not in talking terms between them.Loss of substratum.Gambling by a partner on a stock exchange.(i) Suit by bailor & bailee against wrong doers [Section 180 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872]: If a third person wrongfully deprives the bailee of the use or possession of the goods bailed, or does them any injury, the bailee is entitled to use such remedies as the owner might have used in the like case if no bailment had been made; and either the bailor or the bailee may bring a suit against a third person for such deprivation or injury.Duties of the PawneePawnee has the following duties:Duty to take reasonable care of the pledged goods.Duty not to make unauthorized use of pledged goods.Duty to return the goods when the debt has been repaid or the promise has been performed.Duty not to mix his own goods with goods pledged.Duty not to do any act which is inconsistent with the terms of the pledge.Duty to return accretion to the goods, if any.Question 6Referring to the provisions of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, answer the following in the given scenario:Aman drew the bill of exchange (the bill) on Baban, who accepted it, payable to Magan or order. Magan indorsed the bill to Gagan. Gagan indorsed the bill to Akash to be delivered to him on the next day. However, on the death of Gagan on the same day, his only son Ankit delivered the bill to Akash on the next day as intended by his deceased father. On presenting the bill on the due date, Baban refused to pay. Explaining the importance of delivery in negotiation, decide, whether Akash can enforce the payment of the bill against Baban or the previous parties.	(4 Marks)Reliable Limited, an Indian company, is a global leader in Petrochemical products. For payment of the sale price of machinery imported from Alex Manufacturing Limited, a USA based company (the exporter), the Indian company drew a bill of exchange on Manish, a resident of Mumbai (India) who accepted the bill at Mumbai payable to the exporter in Los Angeles, USA. Decide, whether the bill of exchange is an inland instrument or a foreign instrument. Assume that the bill of exchange was signed by the authorised person for the drawer company.(3 Marks)Answer the following as per the provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872:'Agent cannot personally enforce, nor be personally bound by, contracts on behalf of the principal' however there are some exceptions to this general rule, explain.	(4 Marks)State the rights of Indemnity-holder when sued.	(2 Marks)ORExplain any four differences between Contract of Indemnity and Contract of Guarantee.	(4 Marks)Whether the threat to commit suicide is coercion?	(2 Marks)(i)	Explain the legal rules of auction sale relating to the following points as per provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930:Bid by seller with or without notificationBidder to retract from his bidEffect of pretending bidding	(4 Marks)(ii) Explain the provisions relating to the delivery of the wrong quantity of goods as per the provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930.	(3 Marks)Answer(i)	Importance of Delivery in Negotiation [Section 46 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881]Delivery of an instrument is essential whether the instrument is payable to bearer or order for effecting the negotiation. The delivery must be voluntary, and the object of delivery should be to pass the property in the instrument to the person to whom it is delivered. The delivery can be, actual or constructive. Actual delivery takes place when the instrument changes hand physically. Constructive delivery takes place when the instrument is delivered to the agent, clerk or servant of the indorsee on his behalf or when the indorser, after indorsement, holds the instrument as an agent of the indorsee.Section 46 also lays down that when an instrument is conditionally or for a special purpose only, the property in it does not pass to thetransferee, even though it is indorsed to him, unless the instrument is negotiated to a holder in due course.The contract on a negotiable instrument until delivery remains incomplete and revocable. Delivery is essential not only at the time of negotiation but also at the time of making or drawing of negotiable instrument. The rights in the instrument are not transferred to the indorsee unless after the indorsement the same has been delivered. If a person makes the indorsement of instrument but before the same could be delivered to the indorsee, the indorser dies, the legal representatives of the deceased person cannot negotiate the same by mere delivery thereof. (Section 57).In the instant case, Ankit the only son of Gagan delivered the bill to Akash on the next day as intended by his deceased father (Gagan) which is not valid.Hence, Akash cannot enforce the payment of the bill against Baban or the previous parties.As per section 11 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, a promissory note, bill of exchange or cheque drawn or made in India and made payable in, or drawn upon any person resident in India shall be deemed to be an inland instrument.In the instant case, the bill of exchange was:Drawn in India (since it was drawn by Reliable Limited, an Indian company).Accepted in India (Manish, a resident of Mumbai, accepted the bill in Mumbai).Payable outside India, in Los Angeles, USA.The bill of exchange in this case is an inland instrument because it was drawn in India and accepted by a person resident in India, even though it is payable outside India (Los Angeles, USA).(i) Agent cannot personally enforce, nor be bound by, contracts on behalf of principal.EXCEPTIONS: In the following exceptional cases, the agent is presumed to have agreed to be personally bound:Where the contract is made by an agent for the sale or purchase of goods for a merchant resident abroad/foreign principal: – When an agent has entered into a contract for the sale or purchase of goods on behalf of a principal resident abroad, the presumption is that the agent undertakes to be personally liable for the performances of such contract.Where the agent does not disclose the name of his principal or undisclosed principal; (Principal unnamed): when the agent does not disclose the name of the principal then there arises a presumption that he himself undertakes to be personally liable.Non-existent or incompetent principal: Where the principal, though disclosed, cannot be sued, the agent is presumed to be personally liable.Pretended agent – if the agent pretends but is not an actual agent, and the principal does not rectify the act but disowns it, the pretended agent will be himself liable.When agent exceeds authority- When the agent exceeds his authority, misleads the third person in believing that the agent he has the requisite authority in doing the act, then the agent can be made liable personally for the breach of warranty of authority.Rights of Indemnity-holder when sued (Section 125 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872): The promisee in a contract of indemnity, acting within the scope of his authority, is entitled to recover from the promisor/indemnifier—all damages which he may be compelled to pay in any suitall costs which he may have been compelled to pay in bringing/ defending the suit andall sums which he may have paid under the terms of any compromise of suit.OR(i)	Distinction between a Contract of Indemnity and a Contract of GuaranteePoint of distinctionContract of IndemnityContract of GuaranteeNumber of party/ parties to the contractThere are only two parties namely the indemnifier [promisor] and the indemnified [promisee]There are three parties- creditor, principal debtor and surety.Nature of liabilityThe liability of the indemnifier is primary and unconditional.The liability of the surety is secondary and conditional as the primary liability is that of the principal debtor.Time of liabilityThe liability of the indemnifier arises only on the happening of a contingency.The liability arises only on the non- performance of an existing promise or non-payment of an existing debt.Time to ActThe indemnifier need not act at the request of indemnity holder.The surety acts at the request of principal debtor.Right to sue third partyIndemnifier cannot sue a third party for loss in his own name as there is no privity of contract. Such a right would arise only if there is an assignment in his favour.Surety can proceed against principal debtor in his own right because he gets all the right of a creditor	afterdischarging the debts.PurposeReimbursement of lossFor the security of the creditorCompetency to contractAll	parties	must	be competent to contract.In the case of a contract	ofguarantee, where a minor is a principal debtor, the contract is still valid.(ii) Whether the threat to commit suicide is coercion?Suicide though forbidden by Indian Penal Code is not punishable, as a dead man cannot be punished. But Section 15 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 declares that committing or threatening to commit any act forbidden by Indian Penal Code is coercion. Hence, a threat to commit suicide will be regarded as coercion.(i) Section 64 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 provides following rules to regulate the sale by auction:Bid with notification: Right to bid may be reserved expressly by or on behalf of the seller and where such a right is expressly reserved, but not otherwise, the seller or any one person on his behalf may bid at the auction.Bid by seller without notification: Where the sale is not notified to be subject to a right to bid on behalf of the seller, it shall not be lawful for the seller to bid himself or to employ any person to bid at such sale, or for the auctioneer knowingly to take any bid from the seller or any such person; and any sale contravening this rule may be treated as fraudulent by the buyer.Bidder to retract from his bid: The sale is complete when the auctioneer announces its completion by the fall of hammer or in any other customary manner. Until such announcement is made, any bidder may retract from his bid.Effect of pretending bidding: If the seller makes use of pretended bidding to raise the price, the sale is voidable at the option of the buyer.(ii) Delivery of wrong quantity [Section 37 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930]: Where the seller delivers to the buyer a quantity of goods less than he contracted to sell, the buyer may reject them, but if the buyeraccepts the goods so delivered he shall pay for them at the contract rate. [Sub-section (1)]Where the seller delivers to the buyer a quantity of goods larger than he contracted to sell, the buyer may accept the goods included in the contract and reject the rest, or he may reject the whole. If the buyer accepts the whole of the goods so delivered, he shall pay for them at the contract rate. [Sub-section (2)]Where the seller delivers to the buyer the goods he contracted to sell mixed with goods of a different description not included in the contract, the buyer may accept the goods which are in accordance with the contract and reject, or may reject the whole. [Sub-section (3)]The provisions of this section are subject to any usage of trade, special agreement or course of dealing between the parties. [Sub- section (4)]SUGGESTED ANSWER JUNE 2024FOUNDATION EXAMINATIONPAPER – 2: BUSINESS LAWSQuestion No. 1 is compulsory.Attempt any four questions from the remaining five questions.Working notes should form part of the answersQuestion 1R owns an electronics store. P visited the store to buy a water purifier priced at `54,000/-. He specifically requested R for a purifier with a copper filter. As P wanted to buy the purifier on credit, with the intention of paying in 9 equal monthly instalments, R demands a guarantor for the transaction. S (a friend of P) came forward and gave the guarantee for payment of water purifier. R sold P, a water purifier of a specific brand. P made payment for 4 monthly instalments and after that became insolvent. Explain with reference to the Indian Contract Act, 1872, the liability of S as a guarantor to pay the balance price of water purifier to R.What will be your answer, if R sold the water purifier misrepresenting it as having a copper filter, while it actually has a normal filter? Neither P nor S was aware of this fact and upon discovering the truth, P refused to pay the price. In response to P's refusal, R filed the suit against S, the guarantor. Explain with reference to the Indian Contract Act 1872, whether S is liable to pay the balance price of water purifier to R?	(7 Marks)A company, ABC limited as on 31.03.2023 had a paid-up capital of ` 1 lakh (10,000 equity shares of ` 10 each). In June 2023, ABC limited had issued additional 10,000 equity shares of ` 10 each which was fully subscribed. Out of 10,000 shares, 5,000 of these shares were issued to XYZ private limited company. XYZ is a holding company of PQR private limited by having control over the composition of its board of directors.Now, PQR private limited claims the status of being a subsidiary of ABC limited as being a subsidiary of its subsidiary i.e. XYZ private limited. Examine the validity of the claim of PQR private limited.State the relationship if any, between ABC limited & XYZ private limited as per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.	(7 Marks)The Indian Partnership Act does not make the registration of firms compulsory, yet the consequences or disabilities of non-registration have a persuasive pressure for their registration. Still, there are come cases where non-registration of firm does not affect certain rights. Explain with reference to the provisions of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932.  (6 Marks)AnswerAs per section 126 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, the contract of guarantee is defined as a contract to perform the promise or discharge the liability of a third person in case of his default.In this case, S has given a guarantee for P's payment obligation towards R. When P defaulted after making four monthly instalments and became insolvent, S's liability as a guarantor will come into existence.According to Section 128 of the Act, the liability of the surety is co- extensive with that of the principal debtor, unless it is otherwise provided by the contract.Since P failed to pay the remaining instalments due to insolvency, S, as the guarantor, is liable to pay the balance price of the water purifier to R. In the given situation, S will have to pay the balance amount of ` 30,000 to R. [54,000-(4x6,000)]In the second situation, R sold the water purifier misrepresenting it as having a copper filter, while it actually has a normal filter; this changes the situation significantly.According to Section 142 of the Act, any guarantee which has been obtained by means of misrepresentation made by the creditor, or with his knowledge and assent, concerning a material part of the transaction, is invalid. Here, guarantee is obtained by means of misrepresentation made by the creditor (R), and therefore the guarantee is invalid.Furthermore, under Section 143, any guarantee which the creditor has obtained by means of keeping silence as to material circumstances, is invalid.Here R misrepresented the filter type and both P and S were unaware of this fact. The creditor (R) has obtained the guarantee by remaining silent as to material circumstances. Therefore, the guarantee obtained from S will be considered to be invalid.Consequently, S cannot be held liable to pay the balance price of the water purifier to R.As per Section 2(46) of the Companies Act, 2013, holding company in relation to one or more other companies, means a company of which such companies are subsidiary companies.Section 2(87) defines “subsidiary company” in relation to any other company (that is to say the holding company), means a company in which the holding company—controls the composition of the Board of Directors; orexercises or controls more than one-half of the total voting power either at its own or together with one or more of its subsidiary companies.In the instant case, as on 31.03.2023, ABC Limited had a paid-up capital of` 1 lakh (10,000 equity shares of ` 10 each). In June 2023, ABC Limited issued additional 10,000 equity shares, which was fully subscribed. Post- issue, the total paid-up capital of ABC Limited is ` 2 lakhs (20,000 equity shares of `10 each).Out of these, 5,000 shares were issued to XYZ Private Limited. Since XYZ Private Limited holds only 25% of the shares in ABC Limited, it does not have control of more than one-half of the total voting power of ABC Limited. Hence, XYZ Private Limited cannot be considered as a subsidiary company of ABC Limited in terms of the second criteria stated above, that of controlling of voting power.XYZ Private Limited is the holding company of PQR Private Limited by having control over the composition of its Board of Directors. But since XYZ Private Limited cannot be termed as a subsidiary company of ABC Limited, PQR Private Limited cannot claim the status of being a subsidiary of ABC Limited in terms of the first criteria, that of controlling of the composition of directors.As per section 2(6) of the Act, Associate Company in relation to another company, means a company in which that other company has a significant influence, but which is not a subsidiary company of the company having such influence and includes a joint venture company.The expression “significant influence” means control of at least twenty per cent of total voting power, or control of or participation in business decisions under an agreement.In terms of the above provision, the relationship between ABC Limited and XYZ Private Limited can be of an Associate Company.Since XYZ Private Limited holds more than 20 percent of voting power in ABC Limited, it can be considered as an Associate Company of ABC Limited.The Indian Partnership Act, 1932 does not make the registration of firms compulsory nor does it impose any penalty for non-registration. However, under Section 69, non-registration of partnership gives rise to a number of disabilities. Although registration of firms is not compulsory, yet the consequences or disabilities of non-registration have a persuasive pressure for their registration.Exceptions: Non-registration of a firm does not, however affect the following rights:The right of third parties to sue the firm or any partner.The right of partners to sue for the dissolution of the firm or for the settlement of the accounts of a dissolved firm, or for realization of the property of a dissolved firm.The power of an Official Assignees, Receiver of Court to release the property of the insolvent partner and to bring an action.The right to sue or claim a set-off if the value of suit does not exceed` 100 in value.The right to suit and proceeding instituted by legal representatives or heirs of the deceased partner of a firm for accounts of the firm or to realise the property of the firm.Question 2Sony, a friend of Priya wanted to buy her two-wheeler. Priya agreed to sell her two-wheeler to Sony and it was decided that price of her two-wheeler will be fixed by Priya's father, who is an auto dealer. Priya immediately handed over the keys to Sony. However, Priya's father refused to fix the price as he did not want Priya to sell her vehicle. Priya expressed her inability to sell the two-wheeler to Sony and asked for return, but Sony refused to return the same. Explain-Can Priya take-back the vehicle from Sony?Will your answer be different, if Priya had not handed over the vehicle to Sony?	(7 Marks)Ram wants to incorporate a company in which he will be the only member. According to provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, what type of company can be incorporated? What are the salient features of this type of company?(7 Marks)A LLP is a new form of legal business entity with limited liability. It's an alternative corporate business vehicle that only gives the benefits of limited liability at low compliance cost but allows its partners the flexibility of organizing their internal structure as a traditional partnership. Keeping in view of above, define the following characteristics of LLP.Body CorporateMutual AgencyForeign LLPsArtificial legal person	(6 Marks)AnswerAscertainment of price (Section 9 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930):By virtue of Section 9, the price in a contract of sale may be-fixed by the contract, oragreed to be fixed in a manner provided by the contract, e.g., by a valuer, ordetermined by the course of dealing between the parties.Agreement to sell at valuation (Section 10):Section 10 provides for the determination of price by a third party.Where there is an agreement to sell goods on the terms that price is to be fixed by the valuation of a third party and that third party either does not or cannot make such valuation, the agreement is thereby avoided.However, a buyer who has received and appropriated the goods, must pay a reasonable price for them.In case the third party is prevented from making the valuation by the default of either party, the party not at fault may maintain a suit for damages against the party in fault.In the instant case, Priya handed over the keys of her two- wheeler to Sony and it was decided between them that price of the vehicle will be fixed by Priya’s father. However, Priya’s father refused to fix the price as he did not want Priya to sell her vehicle. As the keys have already been handed over to Sony, Priya cannot take back the keys from Sony and Sony shall pay reasonable price to Priya for the two-wheeler.If Priya had not handed over the vehicle to Sony, the contract could have been avoided as Priya’s father refused to fix the price of the vehicle.(a) Section 2(62) of the Companies Act, 2013 defines one person company (OPC) as a company which has only one person as a member.Ram wants to incorporate a company in which he will be the only member. Hence, he can incorporate an One person Company.According to section 3(1)(c) of the Companies Act, 2013, OPC is a private limited company with the minimum paid up share capital as may be prescribed and having one member.OPC (One Person Company) – salient featuresOnly one person as member.Minimum paid up capital – no limit prescribed.The memorandum of OPC shall indicate the name of the other person, who shall, in the event of the subscriber’s death or his incapacity to contract, become the member of the company.The other person whose name is given in the memorandum shall give his prior written consent in prescribed form and the same shall be filed with Registrar of companies at the time of incorporation.Such other person may be given the right to withdraw his consent.The member of OPC may at any time change the name of such other person by giving notice to the company and the company shall intimate the same to the Registrar.Any such change in the name of the person shall not be deemed to be an alteration of the memorandum.Only a natural person who is an Indian citizen whether resident in India or otherwise and has stayed in India for a period of not less than 120 days during the immediately preceding financial year.shall be eligible to incorporate an OPC;shall be a nominee for the sole member of an OPC.No person shall be eligible to incorporate more than one OPC or become nominee in more than one such company.No minor shall become member or nominee of the OPC or can hold share with beneficial interest.Such Company cannot be incorporated or converted into a company under section 8 of the Act. Though it may be converted to private or public companies in certain cases.Such Company cannot carry out Non-Banking Financial Investment activities including investment in securities of any body-corporate.If One Person Company or any officer of such company contravenes the provisions, they shall be punishable with fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees and with a further finewhich may extend to one thousand rupees for every day after the first during which such contravention continues.Here the member can be the sole member-cum-director.Body corporate: Section 2(1)(d) of the LLP Act, 2008 provides that a LLP is a body corporate formed and incorporated under this Act and is a legal entity separate from that of its partners and shall have perpetual succession. Therefore, any change in the partners of a LLP shall not affect the existence, rights or liabilities of the LLP.Section 3 of LLP Act, 2008, provides that a LLP is a body corporate formed and incorporated under this Act and is a legal entity separate from that of its partners.Mutual Agency: No partner is liable on account of the independent or un-authorized actions of other partners, thus individual partners are shielded from joint liability created by another partner’s wrongful business decisions or misconduct. In other words, all partners will be the agents of the LLP alone. No one partner can bind the other partner by his acts.Foreign LLPs: Section 2(1)(m) defines foreign limited liability partnership “as a limited liability partnership formed, incorporated, or registered outside India which established as place of business within India”. Foreign LLP can become a partner in an Indian LLP.Artificial Legal Person: A LLP is an artificial legal person because it is created by a legal process and is clothed with all rights of an individual. It can do everything which any natural person can do, except of course that, it cannot be sent to jail, cannot take an oath, cannot marry or get divorce nor can it practice a learned profession like CA or Medicine. A LLP is invisible, intangible, immortal (it can be dissolved by law alone) but not fictitious because it really exists.Question 3(i) P, Q and R formed a partnership agreement to operate motor buses along specific routes for a duration of 12 years. After operating the business for four years, it was observed that the business incurred losses each year. Despite this, P is determined to continue the business for the remaining Period. Examine with reference to the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, can Pinsist to continue the business? If so, what options are available to Q and R who are reluctant to continue operating the business?	(4 Marks)(ii) A and B operate a textile merchant business in partnership. Mr. A finances the business and is a sleeping partner. In the regular course of business, B acquires certain fabric goods belonging to C. However, B is aware that these goods are stolen property. Despite this knowledge, B proceeds to purchase and sell some of these stolen goods. Moreover, B records proceeds from these sales in the firm’s books. Now, A wants to avoid the liability towards C, on the grounds of misconduct by B. In the light of the provisions of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 discuss the liability of A and B towards C.	(3 Marks)(i)  XYZ is a company incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013.The paid up share capital of the company is held by others as on 31.03.2024 in as under:Government of India	20%Life Insurance Corporation of India (Public Institution)	8%Government of Tamil Nadu	10%Government of Rajasthan	10%ABC Limited (owned by Government Company)	15%As per above shareholding, state whether XYZ limited be called a government company under the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.(4 Marks)(ii) M and N holding 70% and 30% of the shares in the company. Both died in an accident. Answer with reference to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, what will be the legal effect on the company as both the members have died?	(3 Marks)Explain in brief with reference to the provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, what are the rights enjoyed by Surety against the Creditor, the Principal Debtor and Co-Sureties?	(6 Marks)Answer(i)	Section 40 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, gives right to the partners to dissolve the partnership by agreement with the consent ofall the partners or in accordance with a contract between the partners. ‘Contract between the partners’ means a contract already made.Also, according to section 44, the Court may, at the suit of a partner, may dissolve a firm on various grounds including where the business of the firm cannot be carried on except at a loss (in future also).In the instant case, P wants to continue the partnership business despite the losses incurred over the past four years and Q and R are reluctant to continue operating the business due to continuous losses.Here, P can insist on continuing the business if the partnership agreement does not specifically provide such a right to one or more partner / partners since Section 40 specifies that with the consent of all the partners or in accordance with a contract between the partners the firm can be dissolved.Options available to Q and RMutual Agreement to Dissolve the Partnership: Q and R can propose to P that the partnership be dissolved by mutual agreement. If P agrees, the partnership can be dissolved amicably.Dissolution by the Court: If P does not agree to dissolve the partnership mutually, Q and R can approach the court for an order under Section 44.According to Section 25 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, every partner is jointly and severally liable for all acts of the firm done while he is a partner.As per section 26, the firm is liable to the same extent as the partner for any wrongful act or omission of a partner while acting:in the ordinary course of the business of the firm, orwith the authority of the partners.Section 27 provides that the firm is liable if a partner, acting within the scope of his apparent authority, receives money or property from a third party and misapplies it, or if the firm in the course of its business receives money or property and the same is misapplied while it is in the custody of the firm.In the instant case, both A and B are liable to C for the wrongful acts committed by B. A cannot avoid liability merely on the grounds of being a sleeping partner.(i) Under the Companies Act, 2013, a Government company is defined in Section 2(45) as a company in which not less than 51% of the paid-up share capital is held by:The Central Government, orAny State Government or Governments, orPartly by the Central Government and partly by one or more State Governments,And includes a company which is a subsidiary company of such a Government company.In the instant case, total Government Shareholding is 40% [i.e. 20% (Government of India) + 10% (Government of Tamil Nadu) + 10% (Government of Rajasthan)] = 40%The holding of the Life Insurance Corporation of India i.e. 8% and ABC Limited i.e. 15%, total amounting to 23% cannot be taken into account while counting the prescribed limit of 51%.Since the total shareholding held by the Central Government and State Governments combined is 40%, which is less than 51%, XYZ Limited does not qualify to be a Government company under the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.(ii) One of the features of a company is that it has perpetual succession. As per this feature, members may die or change, but the company goes on till it is wound up on the grounds specified by the Companies Act, 2013. The shares of the company may change hands infinitely but that does not affect the existence of the company. Since a company is an artificial person created by law, law alone can bring an end to its life. Its existence is not affected by the death or insolvency of its members.In the instant case, on the death of M and N, who are holding 70% and 30% shares in the Company, the existence of the company is notaffected, since the shares held by M and N will be legally transmitted to their legal heirs.In terms of the provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, the surety enjoys the following rights:Rights against the creditor;Rights against the principal debtor;Rights against co-sureties.Right against the CreditorSurety’s right to benefit of creditor’s securities [Section 141]: A surety is entitled to the benefit of every security which the creditor has against the principal debtor at the time when the contract of suretyship is entered into, whether the surety knows of the existence of such security or not; and, if the creditor loses, or, without the consent of the surety, parts with such security, the surety is discharged to the extent of the value of the security.Right to set off: If the creditor sues the surety, for payment of principal debtor’s liability, the surety may have the benefit of the set off, if any, that the principal debtor had against the creditor.Right to share reduction: The surety has right to claim proportionate reduction in his liability if the principal debtor becomes insolvent.Right against the principal debtorRights of subrogation [Section 140 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872]: Where, a guaranteed debt has become due, or default of the principal debtor to perform a guaranteed duty has taken place, the surety, upon payment or performance of all that he is liable for, is invested with all the rights which the creditor had against the principal debtor.This right is known as right of subrogation. It means that on payment of the guaranteed debt, or performance of the guaranteed duty, the surety steps into the shoes of the creditor.Implied promise to indemnify surety [Section 145]: In every contract of guarantee there is an implied promise by the principaldebtor to indemnify the surety. The surety is entitled to recover from the principal debtor whatever sum he has rightfully paid under the guarantee, but not sums which he paid wrongfully.Rights against co-sureties“Co-sureties (meaning)- When the same debt or duty is guaranteed by two or more persons, such persons are called co-sureties”Co-sureties liable to contribute equally (Section 146): Unless otherwise agreed, each surety is liable to contribute equally for discharge of whole debt or part of the debt remains unpaid by debtor.Liability of co-sureties bound in different sums (Section 147): The principal of equal contribution is, however, subject to the maximum limit fixed by a surety to his liability. Co-sureties who are bound in different sums are liable to pay equally as far as the limits of their respective obligations permit.Question 4(i)  Mr. J entered into an agreement with Mr. S to purchase his house for` 20 lakh, within three months. He also paid ` 50,000/- as token money. In the meanwhile, in an anti-encroachment drive of the local administration, Mr. S's house was demolished. When Mr. J was informed about the incident he asked for the refund of token money.Referring to the relevant provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 state whether Mr. J is entitled to the refund of the amount paid.(4 Marks)Rama directs Shyam to sell laptops for him and agrees to give Shyam eleven percent (11%) commission on the sale price fixed by Rama for each laptop. As Government of India put restrictions on import of Laptops, Rama thought that the prices of laptops might go up in near future and he revokes Shyam's authority for any further sale. Shyam, before receiving the letter at his end sold 5 laptops at the price fixed by Rama. Shyam asked for 11% commission on the sale of 5 Laptops for` 1 lakh each. Explain under the provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872:Whether sale of laptops after revoking Shyam's authority is binding on Rama?Whether Shyam will be able to recover his commission from Rama, if yes, what will be the amount of such commission?   (3 Marks)A promissory note, payable at a certain period after sight, must be presented to the maker thereof for payment. Under which scenarios presentment for payment is not necessary and the instrument is dishonoured at the due date for presentment according to the provisions of the Negotiable Instrument Act. 1881?	(7 Marks)Describe in brief about the following Regulatory bodies of the Government of India: -Securities and Exchange Board of IndiaReserve Bank of IndiaInsolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India	(6 Marks)Answer(i)	According to section 56 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, an agreement to do an act impossible in itself is void.Contract to do act afterwards becoming impossible or unlawful: A contract to do an act which, after the contract is made, becomes impossible, or, by reason of some event which the promisor could not prevent, unlawful, becomes void when the act becomes impossible or unlawful.According to section 65 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, when an agreement is discovered to be void, or when a contract becomes void, any person who has received any advantage under such agreement or contract is bound to restore it, or to make compensation for it to the person from whom he received it.In the instant case, Mr. J entered into a contract with Mr. S to purchase his house for ` 20 lakh, with a token payment of ` 50,000. The agreement included a condition that the sale would be completed within three months. Before the completion of the sale, the house was demolished by the local administration. This event made it impossible for Mr. S to sell the house to Mr. J as agreed.In this situation, Mr. J is required to refund ` 50,000 token money paid to Mr. S, as the contract to sell the house has become void due to the demolition of the house by the local administration, as a result of which it becomes impossible to sell the house on the part of S.When termination of agent’s authority takes effect as to agent, and as to third persons [Section 208 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872]: The termination of the authority of an agent does not, so far as regards the agent, take effect before it becomes known to him, or, so far as regards third persons, before it becomes known to them.In the instant case,The revocation of Shyam's authority becomes effective only when it is communicated to and received by Shyam. Since Shyam had not received the revocation letter at the time of selling the laptops, his authority to sell on behalf of Rama was still valid. Hence, the sale of laptops conducted by Shyam is binding on Rama.Shyam is entitled to receive his commission for the sales made while he still had the authority to sell. Since he sold the laptops before receiving the revocation, he is entitled to his commission as per the initial agreement with Rama.Amount of Commission: Shyam sold 5 laptops at the price fixed by Rama, which is `1 lakh each. The total sales amount to `5 lakh. The agreed commission rate is 11% i.e. ` 55,000.As per Section 76 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881:No presentment for payment is necessary, and the instrument is dishonoured at the due date for presentment, in any of the following cases:(i) If the maker, drawee or acceptor intentionally prevents the presentment of the instrument, orif the instrument being payable at his place of business, he closes such place on a business day during the usual business hours, orif the instrument being payable at some other specified place, neither he nor any person authorised to pay it attends at such place during the usual business hours, orif the instrument not being payable at any specified place, he cannot after due search be found;as against any party sought to be charged therewith, if he has engaged to pay notwithstanding non-presentment;as against any party if, after maturity, with knowledge that the instrument has not been presented—he makes a part payment on account of the amount due on the instrument,or promises to pay the amount due thereon in whole or in part,or otherwise waives his right to take advantage of any default in presentment for payment;as against the drawer, if the drawer could not suffer damage from the want of such presentment.(i)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI):It is the regulatory bodyfor securities and commodity market in Indiaunder the ownership of Ministry of Finance within the Government of India.It was established on 12 April, 1988 as an executive body and was given statutory powers on 30 January, 1992 through the SEBI Act, 1992.Reserve Bank of India (RBI):It is India's Central Bank and regulatory body responsible for regulation of the Indian banking system.It is under the ownership of Ministry of Finance, Government of India.It is responsible for the control, issue and maintaining supply of the Indian rupee.It also manages the country's main payment systems and works to promote its economic development.Bharatiya Reserve Bank Note Mudran (BRBNM) is a specialised division of RBI through which it prints and mints Indian currency notes (INR) in two of its currency printing presses located in Nashik (Western India) and Dewas (Central India).RBI established the National Payments Corporation of India as one of its specialised division to regulate the payment and settlement systems in India.Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation was established by RBI as one of its specialised division for the purpose of providing insurance of deposits and guaranteeing of credit facilities to all Indian banks.Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI)-It is the regulator for overseeing insolvency proceedings and entities like Insolvency Professional Agencies (IPA), Insolvency Professionals (IP) and Information Utilities (IU) in India.It was established on 1 October 2016 and given statutory powers through the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, which was passed by Lok Sabha on 5th May 2016.It covers Individuals, Companies, Limited Liability, Partnerships and Partnership firms. The new code will speed up the resolution process for stressed assets in the country.It attempts to simplify the process of insolvency and bankruptcy proceedings.It handles the cases using two tribunals like NCLT (National Company Law Tribunal) and Debt Recovery Tribunal.Question 5PTC Hotels in Bombay decided to sell their furniture by auction sale. For this purpose, they appointed RN & Associates as auctioneer. They invited top ten renowned Architects in Bombay for bidding. A right to bid was not notified by them. Furniture was put up in lots for sale. It was decided that for every lot of furniture there will be a reserve price. On 25th Feb 2024, Auction sale was started at 10.am in the lawn of PTC Hotels Bombay. For aspecial lot of furniture three parties came for bidding Mr. Neel, Mr. Raj and Mr. Dev on behalf of their respective companies. Bidding was as follows:Mr. Neel` 5.70 lakhMr. Raj` 4.85 lakhMr. Dev` 6.10 lakhThe sale was completed in favour of Mr. Neel by RN & Associates by fall of hammer. Mr. Dev's Bid was rejected on ground that Right to bid was reserved and company of Mr. Dev was not invited to bid.For another bid of Italian Furniture was made by two parties as follows:Mr. Dheer` 15 lakhMr. Madhu (on behalf of R N & Associates)` 15.20 lakhSale was completed in favour of Mr. Dheer instead of Mr. Madhu.Mr. Dev and Mr. Madhu argued that auction sale was not lawful. Give your opinion with reference to provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 whether Auction Sale will be considered lawful or not?	(7 Marks)"Dissolution of partnership doesn't mean dissolution of firm". Do you agree with this statement? State any three situations where court can dissolve the partnership firm.	(7 Marks)Where a party to a contract refuses altogether to perform, or is disabled from performing his part of it, the other party has a right to rescind it. Discuss this statement and the effects of such refusal under the provisions of The Indian Contract Act, 1872.	(6 Marks)AnswerAn ‘Auction Sale’ is a mode of selling property by inviting bids publicly and the property is sold to the highest bidder. Section 64 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 regulates the legal requirements for the sale by auction.In terms of the provisions of the above Section, following are some of the requirements, which inter alia are required to be complied with for conduct of a valid auction sale-Where the goods are sold in lots: Where the goods are put up for sale in lots, each lot is prima facie deemed to be subject of a separate contract of sale.Right to bid may be reserved: Right to bid may be reserved expressly by or on behalf of the seller and where such a right is expressly reserved, but not otherwise, the seller or any one person on his behalf may bid at the auction.Where the sale is not notified by the seller: Where the sale is not notified to be subject to a right to bid on behalf of the seller, it shall not be lawful for the seller to bid himself or to employ any person to bid at such sale, or for the auctioneer knowingly to take any bid from the seller or any such person; and any sale contravening this rule may be treated as fraudulent by the buyer.Reserved price: The sale may be notified to be subject to a reserve or upset price;In the first Auction sale, the rejection of Mr. Dev’s bidding was not justified since the information as to the right to bid was not expressly given. Therefore, this auction sale was unlawful.In auction sale of lot 2, since right to bid was not notified, it shall not be lawful for the seller to bid himself or to employ any person to bid at such sale. Therefore, auction made in favour of Mr. Dheer will be considered lawful.Dissolution of partnership doesn’t mean dissolution of firm. According to Section 39 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, the dissolution of partnership between all partners of a firm is called the 'dissolution of the firm'.Thus, the dissolution of firm means the discontinuation of the legal relation, the dissolution of firm means the discontinuation of the legal relation existing between all the partners of the firm. But when only one or more partners retires or becomes incapacitated from acting as a partner due to death, insolvency or insanity, the partnership, the relationship between such a partner and other is dissolved, but the rest may decide to continue.In such cases, there is in practice, no dissolution of the firm. The particular partner goes out, but the remaining partners carry on the business of the firm, it is called dissolution of partnership. In the case of dissolution of the firm, on the other hand, the whole firm is dissolved. The partnership terminates as between each and every partner of the firm.Important note: Different mode of presentation to an answerDissolution of partnership doesn’t mean dissolution of firm. This statement can be proved with the help of some points of distinction between both of them, which are as follows:Dissolution of Firm Vs. Dissolution of PartnershipS.No.Basis of DifferenceDissolution	of FirmDissolution	of Partnership1.Continuation	of businessIt involves discontinuation of business in partnership.It does not affect continuation	of business. It involves only reconstitution of the firm.2.Winding upIt involves winding up of the firm and requires realization of assets and settlement	of liabilities.It involves only reconstitution and requires	only revaluation of assets and liabilities of the firm.3.Order of courtA firm may be dissolved by the order of the court.Dissolution	of partnership is not ordered by the court.4.ScopeIt	necessarily involves  dissolution	of partnership.It may or may not involve dissolution of firm.5.Final	closure	of booksIt involves final closure of books of the firm.It does not involve final closure of the books of the firm.Dissolution By the Court (Section 44 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932):Court may, at the suit of the partner, dissolve a firm on any of the following grounds:Insanity/unsound mind: Where a partner (not a sleeping partner) has become of unsound mind, the court may dissolve the firm on a suit of the other partners or by the next friend of the insane partner. Temporary sickness is no ground for dissolution of firm.Permanent incapacity: When a partner, other than the partner suing, has become in any way permanently incapable of performing his duties as partner, then the court may dissolve the firm. Such permanent incapacity may result from physical disability or illness etc.Misconduct: Where a partner, other than the partner suing, is guilty of conduct which is likely to affect prejudicially the carrying on of business, the court may order for dissolution of the firm, by giving regard to the nature of business. It is not necessary that misconduct must relate to the conduct of the business. The important point is the adverse effect of misconduct on the business. In each case nature of business will decide whether an act is misconduct or not.Persistent breach of agreement: Where a partner other than the partner suing, wilfully or persistently commits breach of agreements relating to the management of the affairs of the firm or the conduct of its business, or otherwise so conduct himself in matters relating to the business that it is not reasonably practicable for other partners to carry on the business in partnership with him, then the court may dissolve the firm at the instance of any of the partners. Following comes in to category of breach of contract:Embezzlement,Keeping erroneous accountsHolding more cash than allowedRefusal to show accounts despite repeated request etc.Transfer of interest: Where a partner other than the partner suing, has transferred the whole of his interest in the firm to a third party or has allowed his share to be charged or sold by the court, in the recovery of arrears of land revenue due by the partner, the court may dissolve the firm at the instance of any other partner.Continuous/Perpetual losses: Where the business of the firm cannot be carried on except at a loss in future also, the court may order for its dissolution.Just and equitable grounds: Where the court considers any other ground to be just and equitable for the dissolution of the firm, it may dissolve a firm. The following are the cases for the just and equitable grounds-Deadlock in the management.Where the partners are not in talking terms between them.Loss of substratum.Gambling by a partner on a stock exchange.An anticipatory breach of contract is a breach of contract occurring before the time fixed for performance has arrived. When the promisor refuses altogether to perform his promise and signifies his unwillingness even before the time for performance has arrived, it is called Anticipatory Breach.Anticipatory breach of a contract may take either of the following two ways:Expressly by words spoken or written, andImpliedly by the conduct of one of the parties.Section 39 of the Indian Contract Act deals with anticipatory breach of contract and provides as follows:“When a party to a contract has refused to perform or disable himself from performing, his promise in its entirety, the promisee may put an end to the contract, unless he has signified, but words or conduct, his acquiescence in its continuance.”Effect of anticipatory breach: The promisee is excused from performance or from further performance. Further he gets an option:To either treat the contract as “rescinded and sue the other party for damages from breach of contract immediately without waiting until the due date of performance;orHe may elect not to rescind but to treat the contract as still operative and wait for the time of performance and then hold the other party responsible for the consequences of non-performance. But in this case, he will keep the contract alive for the benefit of the other party as well as his own, and the guilty party, if he so decides on re- consideration, may still perform his part of the contract and can also take advantage of any supervening impossibility which may have the effect of discharging the contract.Question 6Mr. Y issued a cheque for ` 10,000 to Mr. Z which was dishonoured by the Bank because Y did not have enough funds in his account and has no authority to overdraw. Examine as per the provisions of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 whether-Mr. Y is liable for dishonour of cheque, if yes, what are the consequences for such an offence?What would be your answer if Y issued a cheque as a donation to Mr. Z?	(7 Marks)Explain the term Wagering agreement in the light of the Indian Contract Act, 1872. Also, explain some transactions resembling with wagering transaction but which are not void.ORWhat is the meaning of contingent contract? Write briefly its essentials. Also, explain any three rules relating to enforcement of a contingent contract.	(6 Marks)J, a wholesaler of premium Basmati rice delivered on approval 100 bags of rice of 10 kg each to a local retailer, on sale or returnable basis within a month of delivery. The next day the retailer sold 5 bags of rice to a regular customer K. A week later K informed the retailer that the quality of rice was not as per the price.The retailer now wants to return all the rice bags to J, including the 4 bags not used by K. Can the retailer do so?Also briefly describe the provisions underlying in this context of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930,	(7 Marks)AnswerDishonour of Cheque for Insufficiency, Etc., of funds in the accounts [Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881]Where any cheque drawn by a person on an account maintained by him with a banker—for payment of any amount of moneyto another person from that accountfor the discharge, in whole or in part, of any debt or other liability, [A cheque given as gift or donation, or as a security or in discharge of a mere moral obligation, or for an illegal consideration, would be outside the purview of this section]is returned by the bank unpaid,either because of the—amount of money standing to the credit of that account is insufficient to honour the cheque, orthat it exceeds the amount arranged to be paid from that account by an agreement made with that bank,such person shall be deemed to have committed an offence and shall, be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine which may extend to twice the amount of the cheque, or with both.In the instant case,Since Y’s cheque was dishonoured by the Bank due to insufficiency of funds in his account, he shall be deemed to have committed an offence and shall, be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine which may extend to Rs. 20,000, or with both.A cheque given as gift or donation, or as a security or in discharge of a mere moral obligation, or for an illegal consideration, would be outside the purview of this section. Hence, if Y issued a cheque as a donation to Mr. Z, he shall not be liable under section 138 of the Act.Wagering agreement (Section 30 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872): An agreement by way of a wager is void. It is an agreement involving payment of a sum of money upon the determination of an uncertain event. The essence of a wager is that each side should stand to win or lose, depending on the way an uncertain event takes place in reference to which the chance is taken and in the occurrence of which neither of the parties has legitimate interest.Transactions resembling with wagering transaction but are not voidChit fund: Chit fund does not come within the scope of wager (Section 30). In case of a chit fund, a certain number of persons decide to contribute a fixed sum for a specified period and at the end of a month, the amount so contributed is paid to the lucky winner of the lucky draw.Commercial transactions or share market transactions: In these transactions in which delivery of goods or shares is intended to be given or taken, do not amount to wagers.Games of skill and Athletic Competition: Crossword puzzles, picture competitions and athletic competitions where prizes are awarded on the basis of skill and intelligence are the games of skill and hence such competitions are valid.A contract of insurance: A contract of insurance is a type of contingent contract and is valid under law and these contracts are different from wagering agreements.OREssentials of a contingent contractThe performance of a contingent contract would depend upon the happening or non-happening of some event or condition. The condition may be precedent or subsequent.The event referred to as collateral to the contract. The event is not part of the contract. The event should be neither performance promised nor a consideration for a promise.The contingent event should not be a mere ‘will’ of the promisor. The event should be contingent in addition to being the will of the promisor.The event must be uncertain. Where the event is certain or bound to happen, the contract is due to be performed, then it is a not contingent contract.Definition of ‘Contingent Contract’ (Section 31 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872)“A contract to do or not to do something, if some event, collateral to such contract, does or does not happen”.Rules Relating to Enforcement of a contingent contract:The rules relating to enforcement of a contingent contract are laid down in sections 32, 33, 34, 35 and 36 of the Act.Enforcement of contracts contingent on an event happening: Section 32 says that “where a contingent contract is made to do or not to do anything if an uncertain future event happens, it cannot be enforced by law unless and until that event has happened. If the event becomes impossible, such contracts become void”.Enforcement of contracts contingent on an event not happening: Section 33 says that “Where a contingent contract is made to do or not do anything if an uncertain future event does not happen, it can be enforced only when the happening of that event becomes impossible and not before”.A contract would cease to be enforceable if it is contingent upon the conduct of a living person when that living person does something to make the ‘event’ or ‘conduct’ as impossible of happening.Section 34 says that “if a contract is contingent upon as to how a person will act at an unspecified time, the event shall be considered to have become impossible when such person does anything whichrenders it impossible that he should so act within any definite time or otherwise than under further contingencies”.Contingent on happening of specified event within the fixed time: Section 35 says that Contingent contracts to do or not to do anything, if a specified uncertain event happens within a fixed time, becomes void if, at the expiration of time fixed, such event has not happened, or if, before the time fixed, such event becomes impossible.Contingent on specified event not happening within fixed time: Section 35 also says that - “Contingent contracts to do or not to do anything, if a specified uncertain event does not happen within a fixed time, may be enforced by law when the time fixed has expired, and such event has not happened or before the time fixed has expired, if it becomes certain that such event will not happen”.Contingent on an impossible event (Section 36): Contingent agreements to do or not to do anything, if an impossible event happens are void, whether the impossibility of the event is known or not to the parties to the agreement at the time when it is made.According to Section 24 of the Sales of Goods Act, 1930, in case of delivery of goods on approval basis, the property in goods passes from seller to the buyer:-When the person to whom the goods are given either accepts them or does an act which implies adopting the transaction.When the person to whom the goods are given retains the goods without giving his approval or giving notice of rejection beyond the time fixed for the return of goods and in case no time is fixed after the lapse of reasonable time.In the given case, J (seller) has delivered on approval 100 bags of rice of 10 kg each to local retailer (buyer) on sale or returnable basis within a month of delivery. Out of these 100 bags, the local retailer sold 5 bags to K (customer). It implies that the local retailer has accepted 5 bags out of 100.A week later, local retailer received the complaint of some defect in the rice bags, so, he wanted to return all the bags to the J (seller).According to the above provisions, the local retailer is entitled to return only 95 bags to the J (seller) and not those 4 bags which are not used byK. Because, as per clause (i) above, the local retailer has already sold 5 bags, signifying that he has done an act which implies adopting the transaction relating to those 5 bags.
